You therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
And the things which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, these entrust to faithful men, who will be able to teach others also.
Suffer hardship with [me,] as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier.
And also if anyone competes as an athlete, he does not win the prize unless he competes according to the rules.
The hard-working farmer ought to be the first to receive his share of the crops.
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, descendant of David, according to my gospel,
for which I suffer hardship even to imprisonment as a criminal; but the word of God is not imprisoned.
For this reason I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus [and] with [it] eternal glory.
It is a trustworthy statement: For if we died with Him, we shall also live with Him;
If we endure, we shall also reign with Him; If we deny Him, He also will deny us;
If we are faithless, He remains faithful; for He cannot deny Himself.
Remind [them] of these things, and solemnly charge [them] in the presence of God not to wrangle about words, which is useless, [and leads] to the ruin of the hearers.
Be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the word of truth.
But avoid worldly [and] empty chatter, for it will lead to further ungodliness,
and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
[men] who have gone astray from the truth saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and thus they upset the faith of some.
Nevertheless, the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, "The Lord knows those who are His," and, "Let everyone who names the name of the Lord abstain from wickedness."
Now in a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also vessels of wood and of earthenware, and some to honor and some to dishonor.
Therefore, if a man cleanses himself from these [things], he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to the Master, prepared for every good work.
Now flee from youthful lusts, and pursue righteousness, faith, love [and] peace, with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
But refuse foolish and ignorant speculations, knowing that they produce quarrels.
And the Lord's bond-servant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wronged,
with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth,
and they may come to their senses [and escape] from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will.
