The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel.
Hear this, O elders, And listen, all inhabitants of the land. Has [anything like] this happened in your days Or in your fathers' days?
Tell your sons about it, And [let] your sons [tell] their sons, And their sons the next generation.
What the gnawing locust has left, the swarming locust has eaten; And what the swarming locust has left, the creeping locust has eaten; And what the creeping locust has left, the stripping locust has eaten.
Awake, drunkards, and weep; And wail, all you wine drinkers, On account of the sweet wine That is cut off from your mouth.
For a nation has invaded my land, Mighty and without number; Its teeth are the teeth of a lion, And it has the fangs of a lioness.
It has made my vine a waste, And my fig tree splinters. It has stripped them bare and cast [them] away; Their branches have become white.
Wail like a virgin girded with sackcloth For the bridegroom of her youth.
The grain offering and the libation are cut off From the house of the Lord. The priests mourn, The ministers of the Lord.
The field is ruined, The land mourns, For the grain is ruined, The new wine dries up, Fresh oil fails.
Be ashamed, O farmers, Wail, O vinedressers, For the wheat and the barley; Because the harvest of the field is destroyed.
The vine dries up, And the fig tree fails; The pomegranate, the palm also, and the apple tree, All the trees of the field dry up. Indeed, rejoicing dries up From the sons of men.
Gird yourselves [with sackcloth], And lament, O priests; Wail, O ministers of the altar! Come, spend the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God, For the grain offering and the libation Are withheld from the house of your God.
Consecrate a fast, Proclaim a solemn assembly; Gather the elders [And] all the inhabitants of the land To the house of the Lord your God, And cry out to the Lord.
Alas for the day! For the day of the Lord is near, And it will come as destruction from the Almighty.
Has not food been cut off before our eyes, Gladness and joy from the house of our God?
The seeds shrivel under their clods; The storehouses are desolate, The barns are torn down, For the grain is dried up.
How the beasts groan! The herds of cattle wander aimlessly Because there is no pasture for them; Even the flocks of sheep suffer.
To Thee, O Lord, I cry; For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, And the flame has burned up all the trees of the field.
Even the beasts of the field pant for Thee; For the water brooks are dried up, And fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.
