These are the journeys of the sons of Israel, by which they came out from the land of Egypt by their armies, under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses recorded their starting places according to their journeys by the command of the Lord, and these are their journeys according to their starting places.
And they journeyed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover the sons of Israel started out boldly in the sight of all the Egyptians,
while the Egyptians were burying all their first-born whom the Lord had struck down among them. The Lord had also executed judgments on their gods.
Then the sons of Israel journeyed from Rameses, and camped in Succoth.
And they journeyed from Succoth, and camped in Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness.
And they journeyed from Etham, and turned back to Pi-hahiroth, which faces Baal-zephon; and they camped before Migdol.
And they journeyed from before Hahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness; and they went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and camped at Marah.
And they journeyed from Marah, and came to Elim; and in Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees; and they camped there.
And they journeyed from Elim, and camped by the Red Sea.
And they journeyed from the Red Sea, and camped in the wilderness of Sin.
And they journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, and camped at Dophkah.
And they journeyed from Dophkah, and camped at Alush.
And they journeyed from Alush, and camped at Rephidim; now it was there that the people had no water to drink.
And they journeyed from Rephidim, and camped in the wilderness of Sinai.
And they journeyed from the wilderness of Sinai, and camped at Kibroth-hattaavah.
And they journeyed from Kibroth-hattaavah, and camped at Hazeroth.
And they journeyed from Hazeroth, and camped at Rithmah.
And they journeyed from Rithmah, and camped at Rimmon-perez.
And they journeyed from Rimmon-perez, and camped at Libnah.
And they journeyed from Libnah, and camped at Rissah.
And they journeyed from Rissah, and camped in Kehelathah.
And they journeyed from Kehelathah, and camped at Mount Shepher.
And they journeyed from Mount Shepher, and camped at Haradah.
And they journeyed from Haradah, and camped at Makheloth.
And they journeyed from Makheloth, and camped at Tahath.
And they journeyed from Tahath, and camped at Terah.
And they journeyed from Terah, and camped at Mithkah.
And they journeyed from Mithkah, and camped at Hashmonah.
And they journeyed from Hashmonah, and camped at Moseroth.
And they journeyed from Moseroth, and camped at Bene-jaakan.
And they journeyed from Bene-jaakan, and camped at Hor-haggidgad.
And they journeyed from Hor-haggidgad, and camped at Jotbathah.
And they journeyed from Jotbathah, and camped at Abronah.
And they journeyed from Abronah, and camped at Ezion-geber.
And they journeyed from Ezion-geber, and camped in the wilderness of Zin, that is, Kadesh.
And they journeyed from Kadesh, and camped at Mount Hor, at the edge of the land of Edom.
Then Aaron the priest went up to Mount Hor at the command of the Lord, and died there, in the fortieth year after the sons of Israel had come from the land of Egypt on the first [day] in the fifth month.
And Aaron was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.
Now the Canaanite, the king of Arad who lived in the Negev in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the sons of Israel.
Then they journeyed from Mount Hor, and camped at Zalmonah.
And they journeyed from Zalmonah, and camped at Punon.
And they journeyed from Punon, and camped at Oboth.
And they journeyed from Oboth, and camped at Iye-abarim, at the border of Moab.
And they journeyed from Iyim, and camped at Dibon-gad.
And they journeyed from Dibon-gad, and camped at Almon-diblathaim.
And they journeyed from Almon-diblathaim, and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
And they journeyed from the mountains of Abarim, and camped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan [opposite] Jericho.
And they camped by the Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
Then the Lord spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan [opposite] Jericho, saying,
"Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, 'When you cross over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their figured stones, and destroy all their molten images and demolish all their high places;
and you shall take possession of the land and live in it, for I have given the land to you to possess it.
'And you shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the larger you shall give more inheritance, and to the smaller you shall give less inheritance. Wherever the lot falls to anyone, that shall be his. You shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers.
'But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then it shall come about that those whom you let remain of them [will become] as pricks in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land in which you live.
'And it shall come about that as I plan to do to them, so I will do to you.' "
