And it came about at that time, that Judah departed from his brothers, and visited a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua; and he took her and went in to her.
So she conceived and bore a son and he named him Er.
Then she conceived again and bore a son and named him Onan.
And she bore still another son and named him Shelah; and it was at Chezib that she bore him.
Now Judah took a wife for Er his first-born, and her name [was] Tamar.
But Er, Judah's first-born, was evil in the sight of the Lord, so the Lord took his life.
Then Judah said to Onan, "Go in to your brother's wife, and perform your duty as a brother-in-law to her, and raise up offspring for your brother."
And Onan knew that the offspring would not be his; so it came about that when he went in to his brother's wife, he wasted his seed on the ground, in order not to give offspring to his brother.
But what he did was displeasing in the sight of the Lord; so He took his life also.
Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, "Remain a widow in your father's house until my son Shelah grows up"; for he thought, "[I am afraid] that he too may die like his brothers." So Tamar went and lived in her father's house.
Now after a considerable time Shua's daughter, the wife of Judah, died; and when the time of mourning was ended, Judah went up to his sheepshearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
And it was told to Tamar, "Behold, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep."
So she removed her widow's garments and covered [herself] with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in the gateway of Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah; for she saw that Shelah had grown up, and she had not been given to him as a wife.
When Judah saw her, he thought she [was] a harlot, for she had covered her face.
So he turned aside to her by the road, and said, "Here now, let me come in to you"; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, "What will you give me, that you may come in to me?"
He said, therefore, "I will send you a kid from the flock." She said, moreover, "Will you give a pledge until you send [it?]"
And he said, "What pledge shall I give you?" And she said, "Your seal and your cord, and your staff that is in your hand." So he gave [them] to her, and went in to her, and she conceived by him.
Then she arose and departed, and removed her veil and put on her widow's garments.
When Judah sent the kid by his friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman's hand, he did not find her.
And he asked the men of her place, saying, "Where is the temple prostitute who was by the road at Enaim?" But they said, "There has been no temple prostitute here."
So he returned to Judah, and said, "I did not find her; and furthermore, the men of the place said, 'There has been no temple prostitute here.'"
Then Judah said, "Let her keep them, lest we become a laughingstock. After all, I sent this kid, but you did not find her."
Now it was about three months later that Judah was informed, "Your daughter-in-law Tamar has played the harlot, and behold, she is also with child by harlotry." Then Judah said, "Bring her out and let her be burned!"
It was while she was being brought out that she sent to her father-in-law, saying, "I am with child by the man to whom these things belong." And she said," Please examine and see, whose signet ring and cords and staff are these? "
And Judah recognized [them,] and said, "She is more righteous than I, inasmuch as I did not give her to my son Shelah." And he did not have relations with her again.
And it came about at the time she was giving birth, that behold, there were twins in her womb.
Moreover, it took place while she was giving birth, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet [thread] on his hand, saying, "This one came out first."
But it came about as he drew back his hand, that behold, his brother came out. Then she said, "What a breach you have made for yourself!" So he was named Perez.
And afterward his brother came out who had the scarlet [thread] on his hand; and he was named Zerah.
