Now the whole earth used the same language and the same words.
And it came about as they journeyed east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there.
And they said to one another, "Come, let us make bricks and burn [them] thoroughly." And they used brick for stone, and they used tar for mortar.
And they said, "Come, let us build for ourselves a city, and a tower whose top [will reach] into heaven, and let us make for ourselves a name; lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth."
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built.
And the Lord said, "Behold, they are one people, and they all have the same language. And this is what they began to do, and now nothing which they purpose to do will be impossible for them.
"Come, let Us go down and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another's speech."
So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of the whole earth; and they stopped building the city.
Therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of the whole earth; and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of the whole earth.
These are [the records of] the generations of Shem. Shem was one hundred years old, and became the father of Arpachshad two years after the flood;
and Shem lived five hundred years after he became the father of Arpachshad, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Arpachshad lived thirty-five years, and became the father of Shelah;
and Arpachshad lived four hundred and three years after he became the father of Shelah, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Shelah lived thirty years, and became the father of Eber;
and Shelah lived four hundred and three years after he became the father of Eber, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Eber lived thirty-four years, and became the father of Peleg;
and Eber lived four hundred and thirty years after he became the father of Peleg, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Peleg lived thirty years, and became the father of Reu;
and Peleg lived two hundred and nine years after he became the father of Reu, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Reu lived thirty-two years, and became the father of Serug;
and Reu lived two hundred and seven years after he became the father of Serug, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Serug lived thirty years, and became the father of Nahor;
and Serug lived two hundred years after he became the father of Nahor, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Nahor lived twenty-nine years, and became the father of Terah;
and Nahor lived one hundred and nineteen years after he became the father of Terah, and he had [other] sons and daughters.
And Terah lived seventy years, and became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran.
Now these are [the records of] the generations of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran; and Haran became the father of Lot.
And Haran died in the presence of his father Terah in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans.
And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and Iscah.
And Sarai was barren; she had no child.
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife; and they went out together from Ur of the Chaldeans in order to enter the land of Canaan; and they went as far as Haran, and settled there.
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years; and Terah died in Haran.
