Now Sarai, Abram's wife had borne him no [children,] and she had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar.
So Sarai said to Abram, "Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing [children.] Please go in to my maid; perhaps I shall obtain children through her." And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
And after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Abram's wife Sarai took Hagar the Egyptian, her maid, and gave her to her husband Abram as his wife.
And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived; and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her sight.
And Sarai said to Abram, "May the wrong done me be upon you. I gave my maid into your arms; but when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her sight. May the Lord judge between you and me."
But Abram said to Sarai, "Behold, your maid is in your power; do to her what is good in your sight." So Sarai treated her harshly, and she fled from her presence.
Now the angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur.
And he said, "Hagar, Sarai's maid, where have you come from and where are you going?" And she said, "I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress Sarai."
Then the angel of the Lord said to her, "Return to your mistress, and submit yourself to her authority."
Moreover, the angel of the Lord said to her, "I will greatly multiply your descendants so that they shall be too many to count."
The angel of the Lord said to her further, "Behold, you are with child, And you shall bear a son; And you shall call his name Ishmael, Because the Lord has given heed to your affliction.
"And he will be a wild donkey of a man, His hand [will be] against everyone, And everyone's hand [will be] against him; And he will live to the east of all his brothers."
Then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, "Thou art a God who sees"; for she said, "Have I even remained alive here after seeing Him?"
Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
So Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to him.
