And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth.
"And the fear of you and the terror of you shall be on every beast of the earth and on every bird of the sky; with everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea, into your hand they are given.
"Every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you; I give all to you, as [I gave] the green plant.
"Only you shall not eat flesh with its life, [that is,] its blood.
"And surely I will require your lifeblood; from every beast I will require it. And from [every] man, from every man's brother I will require the life of man.
"Whoever sheds man's blood, By man his blood shall be shed, For in the image of God He made man.
"And as for you, be fruitful and multiply; Populate the earth abundantly and multiply in it."
Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying,
"Now behold, I Myself do establish My covenant with you, and with your descendants after you;
and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you; of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth.
"And I establish My covenant with you; and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood, neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth."
And God said, "This is the sign of the covenant which I am making between Me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all successive generations;
I set My bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between Me and the earth.
"And it shall come about, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud,
and I will remember My covenant, which is between Me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh.
"When the bow is in the cloud, then I will look upon it, to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth."
And God said to Noah, "This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that is on the earth."
Now the sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem and Ham and Japheth; and Ham was the father of Canaan.
These three [were] the sons of Noah; and from these the whole earth was populated.
Then Noah began farming and planted a vineyard.
And he drank of the wine and became drunk, and uncovered himself inside his tent.
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside.
But Shem and Japheth took a garment and laid it upon both their shoulders and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were turned away, so that they did not see their father's nakedness.
When Noah awoke from his wine, he knew what his youngest son had done to him.
So he said, "Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants He shall be to his brothers."
He also said, "Blessed be the Lord, The God of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.
"May God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the tents of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant."
And Noah lived three hundred and fifty years after the flood.
So all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years, and he died.
