Now at this time while the disciples were increasing [in number,] a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic [Jews] against the [native] Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving [of food.]
And the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples and said, "It is not desirable for us to neglect the word of God in order to serve tables.
"But select from among you, brethren, seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may put in charge of this task.
"But we will devote ourselves to prayer, and to the ministry of the word."
And the statement found approval with the whole congregation; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch.
And these they brought before the apostles; and after praying, they laid their hands on them.
And the word of God kept on spreading; and the number of the disciples continued to increase greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith.
And Stephen, full of grace and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people.
But some men from what was called the Synagogue of the Freedmen, [including] both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and argued with Stephen.
And [yet] they were unable to cope with the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.
Then they secretly induced men to say, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and [against] God."
And they stirred up the people, the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and dragged him away, and brought him before the Council.
And they put forward false witnesses who said, "This man incessantly speaks against this holy place, and the Law;
for we have heard him say that this Nazarene, Jesus, will destroy this place and alter the customs which Moses handed down to us. "
And fixing their gaze on him, all who were sitting in the Council saw his face like the face of an angel.
