And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek,
and he was well spoken of by the brethren who were in Lystra and Iconium.
Paul wanted this man to go with him; and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
Now while they were passing through the cities, they were delivering the decrees, which had been decided upon by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem, for them to observe.
So the churches were being strengthened in the faith, and were increasing in number daily.
And they passed through the Phrygian and Galatian region, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia;
and when they had come to Mysia, they were trying to go into Bithynia, and the Spirit of Jesus did not permit them;
and passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a certain man of Macedonia was standing and appealing to him, and saying, "Come over to Macedonia and help us."
And when he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Therefore putting out to sea from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and on the day following to Neapolis;
and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of the district of Macedonia, a [Roman] colony; and we were staying in this city for some days.
And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to a riverside, where we were supposing that there would be a place of prayer; and we sat down and began speaking to the women who had assembled.
And a certain woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshiper of God, was listening; and the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul.
And when she and her household had been baptized, she urged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay." And she prevailed upon us.
And it happened that as we were going to the place of prayer, a certain slave-girl having a spirit of divination met us, who was bringing her masters much profit by fortunetelling.
Following after Paul and us, she kept crying out, saying, "These men are bond-servants of the Most High God, who are proclaiming to you the way of salvation."
And she continued doing this for many days. But Paul was greatly annoyed, and turned and said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her!" And it came out at that very moment.
But when her masters saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the market place before the authorities,
and when they had brought them to the chief magistrates, they said, "These men are throwing our city into confusion, being Jews,
and are proclaiming customs which it is not lawful for us to accept or to observe, being Romans. "
And the crowd rose up together against them, and the chief magistrates tore their robes off them, and proceeded to order [them] to be beaten with rods.
And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to guard them securely;
and he, having received such a command, threw them into the inner prison, and fastened their feet in the stocks.
But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns of praise to God, and the prisoners were listening to them;
and suddenly there came a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison house were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were unfastened.
And when the jailer had been roused out of sleep and had seen the prison doors opened, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Do yourself no harm, for we are all here!"
And he called for lights and rushed in and, trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas,
and after he brought them out, he said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
And they said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you shall be saved, you and your household."
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him together with all who were in his house.
And he took them that [very] hour of the night and washed their wounds, and immediately he was baptized, he and all his [household.]
And he brought them into his house and set food before them, and rejoiced greatly, having believed in God with his whole household.
Now when day came, the chief magistrates sent their policemen, saying, "Release those men."
And the jailer reported these words to Paul, [saying,] "The chief magistrates have sent to release you. Now therefore, come out and go in peace."
But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us in public without trial, men who are Romans, and have thrown us into prison; and now are they sending us away secretly? No indeed! But let them come themselves and bring us out."
And the policemen reported these words to the chief magistrates. And they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans,
and they came and appealed to them, and when they had brought them out, they kept begging them to leave the city.
And they went out of the prison and entered [the house of] Lydia, and when they saw the brethren, they encouraged them and departed.
