And when the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place.
And suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent, rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
And there appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit was giving them utterance.
Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men, from every nation under heaven.
And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and were bewildered, because they were each one hearing them speak in his own language.
And they were amazed and marveled, saying, "Why, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
"And how is it that we each hear [them] in our own language to which we were born?
"Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabs-- we hear them in our [own] tongues speaking of the mighty deeds of God. "
And they all continued in amazement and great perplexity, saying to one another, "What does this mean?"
But others were mocking and saying, "They are full of sweet wine."
But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them: "Men of Judea, and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give heed to my words.
"For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is [only] the third hour of the day;
but this is what was spoken of through the prophet Joel:
'And it shall be in the last days,' God says,' That I will pour forth of My Spirit upon all mankind; And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, And your young men shall see visions, And your old men shall dream dreams;
Even upon My bondslaves, both men and women, I will in those days pour forth of My Spirit And they shall prophesy.
'And I will grant wonders in the sky above, And signs on the earth beneath, Blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke.
'The sun shall be turned into darkness, And the moon into blood, Before the great and glorious day of the Lord shall come.
'And it shall be, that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.'
"Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through Him in your midst, just as you yourselves know--
this [Man], delivered up by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put [Him] to death.
"And God raised Him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for Him to be held in its power.
"For David says of Him, 'I was always beholding the Lord in my presence; For He is at my right hand, that I may not be shaken.
'Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue exulted; Moreover my flesh also will abide in hope;
Because Thou wilt not abandon my soul to Hades, Nor allow Thy Holy One to undergo decay.
'Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; Thou wilt make me full of gladness with Thy presence.'
"Brethren, I may confidently say to you regarding the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
"And so, because he was a prophet, and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat [one] of his descendants upon his throne,
he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that He was neither abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh suffer decay.
"This Jesus God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses.
"Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured forth this which you both see and hear.
"For it was not David who ascended into heaven, but he himself says:  'The Lord said to my Lord," Sit at My right hand,
Until I make Thine enemies a footstool for Thy feet. "'
"Therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made Him both Lord and Christ-- this Jesus whom you crucified."
Now when they heard [this], they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brethren, what shall we do?"
And Peter [said] to them, "Repent, and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
"For the promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God shall call to Himself."
And with many other words he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them, saying, "Be saved from this perverse generation!"
So then, those who had received his word were baptized; and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
And they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer.
And everyone kept feeling a sense of awe; and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles.
And all those who had believed were together, and had all things in common;
and they [began] selling their property and possessions, and were sharing them with all, as anyone might have need.
And day by day continuing with one mind in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they were taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity of heart,
praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved.
