And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders, with a certain attorney [named] Tertullus; and they brought charges to the governor against Paul.
And after [Paul] had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying [to the governor],  "Since we have through you attained much peace, and since by your providence reforms are being carried out for this nation,
we acknowledge [this] in every way and everywhere, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
"But, that I may not weary you any further, I beg you to grant us, by your kindness, a brief hearing.
"For we have found this man a real pest and a fellow who stirs up dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
"And he even tried to desecrate the temple; and then we arrested him. [ And we wanted to judge him according to our own Law.
"But Lysias the commander came along, and with much violence took him out of our hands,
ordering his accusers to come before you.] And by examining him yourself concerning all these matters, you will be able to ascertain the things of which we accuse him. "
And the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were so.
And when the governor had nodded for him to speak, Paul responded: "Knowing that for many years you have been a judge to this nation, I cheerfully make my defense,
since you can take note of the fact that no more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
"And neither in the temple, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city [itself] did they find me carrying on a discussion with anyone or causing a riot.
"Nor can they prove to you [the charges] of which they now accuse me.
"But this I admit to you, that according to the Way which they call a sect I do serve the God of our fathers, believing everything that is in accordance with the Law, and that is written in the Prophets;
having a hope in God, which these men cherish themselves, that there shall certainly be a resurrection of both the righteous and the wicked.
"In view of this, I also do my best to maintain always a blameless conscience [both] before God and before men.
"Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings;
in which they found me [occupied] in the temple, having been purified, without [any] crowd or uproar. But [there were] certain Jews from Asia--
who ought to have been present before you, and to make accusation, if they should have anything against me.
"Or else let these men themselves tell what misdeed they found when I stood before the Council,
other than for this one statement which I shouted out while standing among them,' For the resurrection of the dead I am on trial before you today.' "
But Felix, having a more exact knowledge about the Way, put them off, saying, "When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide your case."
And he gave orders to the centurion for him to be kept in custody and [yet] have [some] freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from ministering to him.
But some days later, Felix arrived with Drusilla, his wife who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him [speak] about faith in Christ Jesus.
And as he was discussing righteousness, self-control and the judgment to come, Felix became frightened and said, "Go away for the present, and when I find time, I will summon you."
At the same time too, he was hoping that money would be given him by Paul; therefore he also used to send for him quite often and converse with him.
But after two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and wishing to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul imprisoned.
