The first account I composed, Theophilus, about all that Jesus began to do and teach,
until the day when He was taken up, after He had by the Holy Spirit given orders to the apostles whom He had chosen.
To these He also presented Himself alive, after His suffering, by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over [a period of] forty days, and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God.
And gathering them together, He commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what the Father had promised, "Which," [He said,] "you heard of from Me;
for John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. "
And so when they had come together, they were asking Him, saying, "Lord, is it at this time You are restoring the kingdom to Israel?"
He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or epochs which the Father has fixed by His own authority;
but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of the earth. "
And after He had said these things, He was lifted up while they were looking on, and a cloud received Him out of their sight.
And as they were gazing intently into the sky while He was departing, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them;
and they also said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come in just the same way as you have watched Him go into heaven."
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.
And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were staying; that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James [the son] of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas [the son] of James.
These all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with [the] women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
And at this time Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren (a gathering of about one hundred and twenty persons was there together), and said,
"Brethren, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus.
"For he was counted among us, and received his portion in this ministry."
(Now this man acquired a field with the price of his wickedness; and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem; so that in their own language that field was called Hakeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)
"For it is written in the book of Psalms, 'Let his homestead be made desolate, And let no man dwell in it'; and, 'His office let another man take.'
"It is therefore necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us--
beginning with the baptism of John, until the day that He was taken up from us-- one of these should become a witness with us of His resurrection. "
And they put forward two men, Joseph called Barsabbas (who was also called Justus), and Matthias.
And they prayed, and said, "Thou, Lord, who knowest the hearts of all men, show which one of these two Thou hast chosen
to occupy this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place. "
And they drew lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
