Now when they had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And according to Paul's custom, he went to them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
explaining and giving evidence that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and [saying,] "This Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you is the Christ."
And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, along with a great multitude of the God-fearing Greeks and a number of the leading women.
But the Jews, becoming jealous and taking along some wicked men from the market place, formed a mob and set the city in an uproar; and coming upon the house of Jason, they were seeking to bring them out to the people.
And when they did not find them, they [began] dragging Jason and some brethren before the city authorities, shouting, "These men who have upset the world have come here also;
and Jason has welcomed them, and they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. "
And they stirred up the crowd and the city authorities who heard these things.
And when they had received a pledge from Jason and the others, they released them.
And the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea; and when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews.
Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily, [to see] whether these things were so.
Many of them therefore believed, along with a number of prominent Greek women and men.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica found out that the word of God had been proclaimed by Paul in Berea also, they came there likewise, agitating and stirring up the crowds.
And then immediately the brethren sent Paul out to go as far as the sea; and Silas and Timothy remained there.
Now those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was being provoked within him as he was beholding the city full of idols.
So he was reasoning in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearing [Gentiles,] and in the market place every day with those who happened to be present.
And also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him. And some were saying, "What would this idle babbler wish to say?" Others, "He seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities,"-- because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is which you are proclaiming?
"For you are bringing some strange things to our ears; we want to know therefore what these things mean."
(Now all the Athenians and the strangers visiting there used to spend their time in nothing other than telling or hearing something new.)
And Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, "Men of Athens, I observe that you are very religious in all respects.
"For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription, 'TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.' What therefore you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you.
"The God who made the world and all things in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands;
neither is He served by human hands, as though He needed anything, since He Himself gives to all life and breath and all things;
and He made from one, every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined [their] appointed times, and the boundaries of their habitation,
that they should seek God, if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us;
for in Him we live and move and exist, as even some of your own poets have said,' For we also are His offspring.'
"Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Divine Nature is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and thought of man.
"Therefore having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all everywhere should repent,
because He has fixed a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness through a Man whom He has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising Him from the dead. "
Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some [began] to sneer, but others said, "We shall hear you again concerning this."
So Paul went out of their midst.
But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
