Now the apostles and the brethren who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those who were circumcised took issue with him,
saying, "You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them."
But Peter began [speaking] and [proceeded] to explain to them in orderly sequence, saying,
"I was in the city of Joppa praying; and in a trance I saw a vision, a certain object coming down like a great sheet lowered by four corners from the sky; and it came right down to me,
and when I had fixed my gaze upon it and was observing it I saw the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild beasts and the crawling creatures and the birds of the air.
"And I also heard a voice saying to me, 'Arise, Peter; kill and eat.'
"But I said, 'By no means, Lord, for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered my mouth.'
"But a voice from heaven answered a second time, 'What God has cleansed, no longer consider unholy.'
"And this happened three times, and everything was drawn back up into the sky.
"And behold, at that moment three men appeared before the house in which we were [staying,] having been sent to me from Caesarea.
"And the Spirit told me to go with them without misgivings. And these six brethren also went with me, and we entered the man's house.
"And he reported to us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, and saying, 'Send to Joppa, and have Simon, who is also called Peter, brought here;
and he shall speak words to you by which you will be saved, you and all your household.'
"And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, just as [He did] upon us at the beginning.
"And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He used to say, 'John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'
"If God therefore gave to them the same gift as [He gave] to us also after believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could stand in God's way?"
And when they heard this, they quieted down, and glorified God, saying, "Well then, God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance [that leads] to life."
So then those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose in connection with Stephen made their way to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except to Jews alone.
But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and [began] speaking to the Greeks also, preaching the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number who believed turned to the Lord.
And the news about them reached the ears of the church at Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas off to Antioch.
Then when he had come and witnessed the grace of God, he rejoiced and [began] to encourage them all with resolute heart to remain [true] to the Lord;
for he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And considerable numbers were brought to the Lord.
And he left for Tarsus to look for Saul;
and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came about that for an entire year they met with the church, and taught considerable numbers; and the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
Now at this time some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them named Agabus stood up and [began] to indicate by the Spirit that there would certainly be a great famine all over the world. And this took place in the [reign] of Claudius.
And in the proportion that any of the disciples had means, each of them determined to send [a contribution] for the relief of the brethren living in Judea.
And this they did, sending it in charge of Barnabas and Saul to the elders.
