And Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death.  And on that day a great persecution arose against the church in Jerusalem; and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And [some] devout men buried Stephen, and made loud lamentation over him.
But Saul [began] ravaging the church, entering house after house; and dragging off men and women, he would put them in prison.
Therefore, those who had been scattered went about preaching the word.
And Philip went down to the city of Samaria and [began] proclaiming Christ to them.
And the multitudes with one accord were giving attention to what was said by Philip, as they heard and saw the signs which he was performing.
For [in the case of] many who had unclean spirits, they were coming out [of them] shouting with a loud voice; and many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed.
And there was much rejoicing in that city.
Now there was a certain man named Simon, who formerly was practicing magic in the city, and astonishing the people of Samaria, claiming to be someone great;
and they all, from smallest to greatest, were giving attention to him, saying, "This man is what is called the Great Power of God."
And they were giving him attention because he had for a long time astonished them with his magic arts.
But when they believed Philip preaching the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were being baptized, men and women alike.
And even Simon himself believed; and after being baptized, he continued on with Philip; and as he observed signs and great miracles taking place, he was constantly amazed.
Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent them Peter and John,
who came down and prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit.
For He had not yet fallen upon any of them; they had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they [began] laying their hands on them, and they were receiving the Holy Spirit.
Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was bestowed through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,
saying, "Give this authority to me as well, so that everyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit."
But Peter said to him, "May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!
"You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.
"Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours, and pray the Lord that if possible, the intention of your heart may be forgiven you.
"For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity."
But Simon answered and said, "Pray to the Lord for me yourselves, so that nothing of what you have said may come upon me."
And so, when they had solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem, and were preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip saying, "Arise and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza." (This is a desert [road].)
And he arose and went; and behold, there was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure; and he had come to Jerusalem to worship.
And he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip, "Go up and join this chariot."
And when Philip had run up, he heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?"
And he said, "Well, how could I, unless someone guides me?" And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
Now the passage of Scripture which he was reading was this: "He was led as a sheep to slaughter; And as a lamb before its shearer is silent, So He does not open His mouth.
"In humiliation His judgment was taken away; Who shall relate His generation? For His life is removed from the earth."
And the eunuch answered Philip and said, "Please [tell me], of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself, or of someone else?"
And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture he preached Jesus to him.
And as they went along the road they came to some water; and the eunuch *said, "Look! Water! What prevents me from being baptized?"
[And Philip said, "If you believe with all your heart, you may." And he answered and said, "I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God."]
And he ordered the chariot to stop; and they both went down into the water, Philip as well as the eunuch; and he baptized him.
And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away; and the eunuch saw him no more, but went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip found himself at Azotus; and as he passed through he kept preaching the gospel to all the cities, until he came to Caesarea.
