And it came about that in Iconium they entered the synagogue of the Jews together, and spoke in such a manner that a great multitude believed, both of Jews and of Greeks.
But the Jews who disbelieved stirred up the minds of the Gentiles, and embittered them against the brethren.
Therefore they spent a long time [there] speaking boldly [with reliance] upon the Lord, who was bearing witness to the word of His grace, granting that signs and wonders be done by their hands.
But the multitude of the city was divided; and some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles.
And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews with their rulers, to mistreat and to stone them,
they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding region;
and there they continued to preach the gospel.
And at Lystra there was sitting a certain man, without strength in his feet, lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked.
This man was listening to Paul as he spoke, who, when he had fixed his gaze upon him, and had seen that he had faith to be made well,
said with a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." And he leaped up and [began] to walk.
And when the multitudes saw what Paul had done, they raised their voice, saying in the Lycaonian language, "The gods have become like men and have come down to us."
And they [began] calling Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker.
And the priest of Zeus, whose [temple] was just outside the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.
But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their robes and rushed out into the crowd, crying out
and saying, "Men, why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you, and preach the gospel to you in order that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them.
"And in the generations gone by He permitted all the nations to go their own ways;
and yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. "
And [even] saying these things, they with difficulty restrained the crowds from offering sacrifice to them.
But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having won over the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead.
But while the disciples stood around him, he arose and entered the city. And the next day he went away with Barnabas to Derbe.
And after they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and [saying,] "Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God."
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
And they passed through Pisidia and came into Pamphylia.
And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia;
and from there they sailed to Antioch, from which they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had accomplished.
And when they had arrived and gathered the church together, they [began] to report all things that God had done with them and how He had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they spent a long time with the disciples.
