And after the uproar had ceased, Paul sent for the disciples and when he had exhorted them and taken his leave of them, he departed to go to Macedonia.
And when he had gone through those districts and had given them much exhortation, he came to Greece.
And [there] he spent three months, and when a plot was formed against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he determined to return through Macedonia.
And he was accompanied by Sopater of Berea, [the son] of Pyrrhus; and by Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia.
But these had gone on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas.
And we sailed from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and came to them at Troas within five days; and there we stayed seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul [began] talking to them, intending to depart the next day, and he prolonged his message until midnight.
And there were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together.
And there was a certain young man named Eutychus sitting on the window sill, sinking into a deep sleep; and as Paul kept on talking, he was overcome by sleep and fell down from the third floor, and was picked up dead.
But Paul went down and fell upon him and after embracing him, he said, "Do not be troubled, for his life is in him."
And when he had gone [back] up, and had broken the bread and eaten, he talked with them a long while, until daybreak, and so departed.
And they took away the boy alive, and were greatly comforted.
But we, going ahead to the ship, set sail for Assos, intending from there to take Paul on board; for thus he had arranged it, intending himself to go by land.
And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and came to Mitylene.
And sailing from there, we arrived the following day opposite Chios; and the next day we crossed over to Samos; and the day following we came to Miletus.
For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus in order that he might not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying to be in Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost.
And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called to him the elders of the church.
And when they had come to him, he said to them,  "You yourselves know, from the first day that I set foot in Asia, how I was with you the whole time,
serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials which came upon me through the plots of the Jews;
how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you publicly and from house to house,
solemnly testifying to both Jews and Greeks of repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
"And now, behold, bound in spirit, I am on my way to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit solemnly testifies to me in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
"But I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself, in order that I may finish my course, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God.
"And now, behold, I know that all of you, among whom I went about preaching the kingdom, will see my face no more.
"Therefore I testify to you this day, that I am innocent of the blood of all men.
"For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God.
"Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood.
"I know that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;
and from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them.
"Therefore be on the alert, remembering that night and day for a period of three years I did not cease to admonish each one with tears.
"And now I commend you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build [you] up and to give [you] the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
"I have coveted no one's silver or gold or clothes.
"You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my [own] needs and to the men who were with me.
"In everything I showed you that by working hard in this manner you must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
And they [began] to weep aloud and embraced Paul, and repeatedly kissed him,
grieving especially over the word which he had spoken, that they should see his face no more. And they were accompanying him to the ship.
