Woe is me! For I am Like the fruit pickers and the grape gatherers. There is not a cluster of grapes to eat, [Or] a first-ripe fig [which] I crave.
The godly person has perished from the land, And there is no upright [person] among men. All of them lie in wait for bloodshed; Each of them hunts the other with a net.
Concerning evil, both hands do it well. The prince asks, also the judge, for a bribe, And a great man speaks the desire of his soul; So they weave it together.
The best of them is like a briar, The most upright like a thorn hedge. The day when you post a watchman, Your punishment will come. Then their confusion will occur.
Do not trust in a neighbor; Do not have confidence in a friend. From her who lies in your bosom Guard your lips.
For son treats father contemptuously, Daughter rises up against her mother, Daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; A man's enemies are the men of his own household.
But as for me, I will watch expectantly for the Lord; I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me.
Do not rejoice over me, O my enemy. Though I fall I will rise; Though I dwell in darkness, the Lord is a light for me.
I will bear the indignation of the Lord Because I have sinned against Him, Until He pleads my case and executes justice for me. He will bring me out to the light, [And] I will see His righteousness.
Then my enemy will see, And shame will cover her who said to me, "Where is the Lord your God?" My eyes will look on her; At that time she will be trampled down, Like mire of the streets.
[It will be] a day for building your walls. On that day will your boundary be extended.
It [will be] a day when they will come to you From Assyria and the cities of Egypt, From Egypt even to the Euphrates, Even from sea to sea and mountain to mountain.
And the earth will become desolate because of her inhabitants, On account of the fruit of their deeds.
Shepherd Thy people with Thy scepter, The flock of Thy possession Which dwells by itself in the woodland, In the midst of a fruitful field. Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead As in the days of old.
"As in the days when you came out from the land of Egypt, I will show you miracles."
Nations will see and be ashamed Of all their might. They will put [their] hand on [their] mouth, Their ears will be deaf.
They will lick the dust like a serpent, Like reptiles of the earth. They will come trembling out of their fortresses; To the Lord our God they will come in dread, And they will be afraid before Thee.
Who is a God like Thee, who pardons iniquity And passes over the rebellious act of the remnant of His possession? He does not retain His anger forever, Because He delights in unchanging love.
He will again have compassion on us; He will tread our iniquities under foot. Yes, Thou wilt cast all their sins Into the depths of the sea.
Thou wilt give truth to Jacob [And] unchanging love to Abraham, Which Thou didst swear to our forefathers From the days of old. 
