"Behold, my eye has seen all [this,] My ear has heard and understood it.
"What you know I also know. I am not inferior to you.
"But I would speak to the Almighty, And I desire to argue with God.
"But you smear with lies; You are all worthless physicians.
"O that you would be completely silent, And that it would become your wisdom!
"Please hear my argument, And listen to the contentions of my lips.
"Will you speak what is unjust for God, And speak what is deceitful for Him?
"Will you show partiality for Him? Will you contend for God?
"Will it be well when He examines you? Or will you deceive Him as one deceives a man?
"He will surely reprove you, If you secretly show partiality.
"Will not His majesty terrify you, And the dread of Him fall on you?
"Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, Your defenses are defenses of clay.
"Be silent before me so that I may speak; Then let come on me what may.
"Why should I take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hands?
"Though He slay me, I will hope in Him. Nevertheless I will argue my ways before Him.
"This also will be my salvation, For a godless man may not come before His presence.
"Listen carefully to my speech, And let my declaration [fill] your ears.
"Behold now, I have prepared my case; I know that I will be vindicated.
"Who will contend with me? For then I would be silent and die.
"Only two things do not do to me, Then I will not hide from Thy face:
Remove Thy hand from me, And let not the dread of Thee terrify me.
"Then call, and I will answer; Or let me speak, then reply to me.
"How many are my iniquities and sins? Make known to me my rebellion and my sin.
"Why dost Thou hide Thy face, And consider me Thine enemy?
"Wilt Thou cause a driven leaf to tremble? Or wilt Thou pursue the dry chaff?
"For Thou dost write bitter things against me, And dost make me to inherit the iniquities of my youth.
"Thou dost put my feet in the stocks, And dost watch all my paths; Thou dost set a limit for the soles of my feet,
While I am decaying like a rotten thing, Like a garment that is moth-eaten.
