Then Job answered,
"Listen carefully to my speech, And let this be your [way of] consolation.
"Bear with me that I may speak; Then after I have spoken, you may mock.
"As for me, is my complaint to man? And why should I not be impatient?
"Look at me, and be astonished, And put [your] hand over [your] mouth.
"Even when I remember, I am disturbed, And horror takes hold of my flesh.
"Why do the wicked [still] live, Continue on, also become very powerful?
"Their descendants are established with them in their sight, And their offspring before their eyes,
Their houses are safe from fear, Neither is the rod of God on them.
"His ox mates without fail; His cow calves and does not abort.
"They send forth their little ones like the flock, And their children skip about.
"They sing to the timbrel and harp And rejoice at the sound of the flute.
"They spend their days in prosperity, And suddenly they go down to Sheol.
"And they say to God, 'Depart from us! We do not even desire the knowledge of Thy ways.
'Who is the Almighty, that we should serve Him, And what would we gain if we entreat Him?'
"Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand; The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
"How often is the lamp of the wicked put out, Or [does] their calamity fall on them? Does God apportion destruction in His anger?
"Are they as straw before the wind, And like chaff which the storm carries away?
"[You say,] 'God stores away a man's iniquity for his sons.' Let God repay him so that he may know [it.]
"Let his own eyes see his decay, And let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
"For what does he care for his household after him, When the number of his months is cut off?
"Can anyone teach God knowledge, In that He judges those on high?
"One dies in his full strength, Being wholly at ease and satisfied;
His sides are filled out with fat, And the marrow of his bones is moist,
While another dies with a bitter soul, Never even tasting [anything] good.
"Together they lie down in the dust, And worms cover them.
"Behold, I know your thoughts, And the plans by which you would wrong me.
"For you say, 'Where is the house of the nobleman, And where is the tent, the dwelling places of the wicked?'
"Have you not asked wayfaring men, And do you not recognize their witness?
"For the wicked is reserved for the day of calamity; They will be led forth at the day of fury.
"Who will confront him with his actions, And who will repay him for what he has done?
"While he is carried to the grave, [Men] will keep watch over [his] tomb.
"The clods of the valley will gently cover him; Moreover, all men will follow after him, While countless ones [go] before him.
"How then will you vainly comfort me, For your answers remain [full of] falsehood?"
