"Call now, is there anyone who will answer you? And to which of the holy ones will you turn?
"For vexation slays the foolish man, And anger kills the simple.
"I have seen the foolish taking root, And I cursed his abode immediately.
"His sons are far from safety, They are even oppressed in the gate, Neither is there a deliverer.
"His harvest the hungry devour, And take it to a [place of] thorns; And the schemer is eager for their wealth.
"For affliction does not come from the dust, Neither does trouble sprout from the ground,
For man is born for trouble, As sparks fly upward.
"But as for me, I would seek God, And I would place my cause before God;
Who does great and unsearchable things, Wonders without number.
"He gives rain on the earth, And sends water on the fields,
So that He sets on high those who are lowly, And those who mourn are lifted to safety.
"He frustrates the plotting of the shrewd, So that their hands cannot attain success.
"He captures the wise by their own shrewdness And the advice of the cunning is quickly thwarted.
"By day they meet with darkness, And grope at noon as in the night.
"But He saves from the sword of their mouth, And the poor from the hand of the mighty.
"So the helpless has hope, And unrighteousness must shut its mouth.
"Behold, how happy is the man whom God reproves, So do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
"For He inflicts pain, and gives relief; He wounds, and His hands [also] heal.
"From six troubles He will deliver you, Even in seven evil will not touch you.
"In famine He will redeem you from death, And in war from the power of the sword.
"You will be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, Neither will you be afraid of violence when it comes.
"You will laugh at violence and famine, Neither will you be afraid of wild beasts.
"For you will be in league with the stones of the field; And the beasts of the field will be at peace with you.
"And you will know that your tent is secure, For you will visit your abode and fear no loss.
"You will know also that your descendants will be many, And your offspring as the grass of the earth.
"You will come to the grave in full vigor, Like the stacking of grain in its season.
"Behold this, we have investigated it, thus it is; Hear it, and know for yourself."
