Then Eliphaz the Temanite responded,
"Can a vigorous man be of use to God, Or a wise man be useful to himself?
"Is there any pleasure to the Almighty if you are righteous, Or profit if you make your ways perfect?
"Is it because of your reverence that He reproves you, That He enters into judgment against you?
"Is not your wickedness great, And your iniquities without end?
"For you have taken pledges of your brothers without cause, And stripped men naked.
"To the weary you have given no water to drink, And from the hungry you have withheld bread.
"But the earth belongs to the mighty man, And the honorable man dwells in it.
"You have sent widows away empty, And the strength of the orphans has been crushed.
"Therefore snares surround you, And sudden dread terrifies you,
Or darkness, so that you cannot see, And an abundance of water covers you.
"Is not God [in] the height of heaven? Look also at the distant stars, how high they are!
"And you say, 'What does God know? Can He judge through the thick darkness?
'Clouds are a hiding place for Him, so that He cannot see; And He walks on the vault of heaven.'
"Will you keep to the ancient path Which wicked men have trod,
Who were snatched away before their time, Whose foundations were washed away by a river?
"They said to God, 'Depart from us!' And 'What can the Almighty do to them?'
"Yet He filled their houses with good [things;] But the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
"The righteous see and are glad, And the innocent mock them,
[Saying,]' Truly our adversaries are cut off, And their abundance the fire has consumed.'
"Yield now and be at peace with Him; Thereby good will come to you.
"Please receive instruction from His mouth, And establish His words in your heart.
"If you return to the Almighty, you will be restored; If you remove unrighteousness far from your tent,
And place [your] gold in the dust, And [the gold of] Ophir among the stones of the brooks,
Then the Almighty will be your gold And choice silver to you.
"For then you will delight in the Almighty, And lift up your face to God.
"You will pray to Him, and He will hear you; And you will pay your vows.
"You will also decree a thing, and it will be established for you; And light will shine on your ways.
"When you are cast down, you will speak with confidence And the humble person He will save.
"He will deliver one who is not innocent, And he will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands."
