"At this also my heart trembles, And leaps from its place.
"Listen closely to the thunder of His voice, And the rumbling that goes out from His mouth.
"Under the whole heaven He lets it loose, And His lightning to the ends of the earth.
"After it, a voice roars; He thunders with His majestic voice; And He does not restrain the lightnings when His voice is heard.
"God thunders with His voice wondrously, Doing great things which we cannot comprehend.
"For to the snow He says, 'Fall on the earth,' And to the downpour and the rain, 'Be strong.'
"He seals the hand of every man, That all men may know His work.
"Then the beast goes into its lair, And remains in its den.
"Out of the south comes the storm, And out of the north the cold.
"From the breath of God ice is made, And the expanse of the waters is frozen.
"Also with moisture He loads the thick cloud; He disperses the cloud of His lightning.
"And it changes direction, turning around by His guidance, That it may do whatever He commands it On the face of the inhabited earth.
"Whether for correction, or for His world, Or for lovingkindness, He causes it to happen.
"Listen to this, O Job, Stand and consider the wonders of God.
"Do you know how God establishes them, And makes the lightning of His cloud to shine?
"Do you know about the layers of the thick clouds, The wonders of one perfect in knowledge,
You whose garments are hot, When the land is still because of the south wind?
"Can you, with Him, spread out the skies, Strong as a molten mirror?
"Teach us what we shall say to Him; We cannot arrange [our case] because of darkness.
"Shall it be told Him that I would speak? Or should a man say that he would be swallowed up?
"And now men do not see the light which is bright in the skies; But the wind has passed and cleared them.
"Out of the north comes golden [splendor;] Around God is awesome majesty.
"The Almighty-- we cannot find Him; He is exalted in power; And He will not do violence to justice and abundant righteousness.
"Therefore men fear Him; He does not regard any who are wise of heart."
