Then Elihu continued and said,
"Wait for me a little, and I will show you That there is yet more to be said in God's behalf.
"I will fetch my knowledge from afar, And I will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
"For truly my words are not false; One who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
"Behold, God is mighty but does not despise [any;] [He is] mighty in strength of understanding.
"He does not keep the wicked alive, But gives justice to the afflicted.
"He does not withdraw His eyes from the righteous; But with kings on the throne He has seated them forever, and they are exalted.
"And if they are bound in fetters, And are caught in the cords of affliction,
Then He declares to them their work And their transgressions, that they have magnified themselves.
"And He opens their ear to instruction, And commands that they return from evil.
"If they hear and serve [Him,] They shall end their days in prosperity, And their years in pleasures.
"But if they do not hear, they shall perish by the sword, And they shall die without knowledge.
"But the godless in heart lay up anger; They do not cry for help when He binds them.
"They die in youth, And their life [perishes] among the cult prostitutes.
"He delivers the afflicted in their affliction, And opens their ear in [time of] oppression.
"Then indeed, He enticed you from the mouth of distress, Instead of it, a broad place with no constraint; And that which was set on your table was full of fatness.
"But you were full of judgment on the wicked; Judgment and justice take hold [of you.]
"[Beware] lest wrath entice you to scoffing; And do not let the greatness of the ransom turn you aside.
"Will your riches keep [you] from distress, Or all the forces of [your] strength?
"Do not long for the night, When people vanish in their place.
"Be careful, do not turn to evil; For you have preferred this to affliction.
"Behold, God is exalted in His power; Who is a teacher like Him?
"Who has appointed Him His way, And who has said, 'Thou hast done wrong'?
"Remember that you should exalt His work, Of which men have sung.
"All men have seen it; Man beholds from afar.
"Behold, God is exalted, and we do not know [Him;] The number of His years is unsearchable.
"For He draws up the drops of water, They distill rain from the mist,
Which the clouds pour down, They drip upon man abundantly.
"Can anyone understand the spreading of the clouds, The thundering of His pavilion?
"Behold, He spreads His lightning about Him, And He covers the depths of the sea.
"For by these He judges peoples; He gives food in abundance.
"He covers [His] hands with the lightning, And commands it to strike the mark.
"Its noise declares His presence; The cattle also, concerning what is coming up.
