Then Job answered the Lord, and said,
"I know that Thou canst do all things, And that no purpose of Thine can be thwarted.
'Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?' "Therefore I have declared that which I did not understand, Things too wonderful for me, which I did not know."
'Hear, now, and I will speak; I will ask Thee, and do Thou instruct me.'
"I have heard of Thee by the hearing of the ear; But now my eye sees Thee;
Therefore I retract, And I repent in dust and ashes. "
And it came about after the Lord had spoken these words to Job, that the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, "My wrath is kindled against you and against your two friends, because you have not spoken of Me what is right as My servant Job has.
"Now therefore, take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves, and My servant Job will pray for you. For I will accept him so that I may not do with you [according to your] folly, because you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has."
"So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite [and] Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the Lord told them; and the Lord accepted Job.
And the Lord restored the fortunes of Job when he prayed for his friends, and the Lord increased all that Job had twofold.
Then all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all who had known him before, came to him, and they ate bread with him in his house; and they consoled him and comforted him for all the evil that the Lord had brought on him. And each one gave him one piece of money, and each a ring of gold.
And the Lord blessed the latter [days] of Job more than his beginning, and he had 14,000 sheep, and 6,000 camels, and 1,000 yoke of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys.
And he had seven sons and three daughters.
And he named the first Jemimah, and the second Keziah, and the third Keren-happuch.
And in all the land no women were found so fair as Job's daughters; and their father gave them inheritance among their brothers.
And after this Job lived 140 years, and saw his sons, and his grandsons, four generations.
And Job died, an old man and full of days.
