In the tenth year, in the tenth [month,] on the twelfth of the month, the word of the Lord came to me saying,
"Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt.
"Speak and say, 'Thus says the Lord God, "Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, The great monster that lies in the midst of his rivers, That has said,' My Nile is mine, and I myself have made it.'
"And I shall put hooks in your jaws, And I shall make the fish of your rivers cling to your scales. And I shall bring you up out of the midst of your rivers, And all the fish of your rivers will cling to your scales.
"And I shall abandon you to the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers; You will fall on the open field; you will not be brought together or gathered. I have given you for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the sky.
"Then all the inhabitants of Egypt will know that I am the Lord, Because they have been [only] a staff [made] of reed to the house of Israel.
"When they took hold of you with the hand, You broke and tore all their hands; And when they leaned on you, You broke and made all their loins quake."
'Therefore, thus says the Lord God, "Behold, I shall bring upon you a sword, and I shall cut off from you man and beast.
"And the land of Egypt will become a desolation and waste. Then they will know that I am the Lord.  Because you said, 'The Nile is mine, and I have made [it,]'
therefore, behold, I am against you and against your rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from Migdol [to] Syene and even to the border of Ethiopia.
"A man's foot will not pass through it, and the foot of a beast will not pass through it, and it will not be inhabited for forty years.
"So I shall make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of desolated lands. And her cities, in the midst of cities that are laid waste, will be desolate forty years; and I shall scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands."
' For thus says the Lord God, "At the end of forty years I shall gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered.
"And I shall turn the fortunes of Egypt and shall make them return to the land of Pathros, to the land of their origin; and there they will be a lowly kingdom.
"It will be the lowest of the kingdoms; and it will never again lift itself up above the nations. And I shall make them so small that they will not rule over the nations.
"And it will never again be the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing to mind the iniquity of their having turned to Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord God."' "
Now in the twenty-seventh year, in the first [month,] on the first of the month, the word of the Lord came to me saying,
"Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his army labor hard against Tyre; every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare. But he and his army had no wages from Tyre for the labor that he had performed against it."
Therefore, thus says the Lord God, "Behold, I shall give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. And he will carry off her wealth, and capture her spoil and seize her plunder; and it will be wages for his army.
"I have given him the land of Egypt [for] his labor which he performed, because they acted for Me," declares the Lord God.
"On that day I shall make a horn sprout for the house of Israel, and I shall open your mouth in their midst. Then they will know that I am the Lord."
