"And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, 'Thus says the Lord God," Behold, I am against you, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal;
and I shall turn you around, drive you on, take you up from the remotest parts of the north, and bring you against the mountains of Israel.
"And I shall strike your bow from your left hand, and dash down your arrows from your right hand.
"You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your troops, and the peoples who are with you; I shall give you as food to every kind of predatory bird and beast of the field.
"You will fall on the open field; for it is I who have spoken," declares the Lord God.
"And I shall send fire upon Magog and those who inhabit the coastlands in safety; and they will know that I am the Lord.
"And My holy name I shall make known in the midst of My people Israel; and I shall not let My holy name be profaned anymore. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel.
"Behold, it is coming and it shall be done," declares the Lord God. "That is the day of which I have spoken.
"Then those who inhabit the cities of Israel will go out, and make fires with the weapons and burn [them,] both shields and bucklers, bows and arrows, war clubs and spears and for seven years they will make fires of them.
"And they will not take wood from the field or gather firewood from the forests, for they will make fires with the weapons; and they will take the spoil of those who despoiled them, and seize the plunder of those who plundered them," declares the Lord God.
"And it will come about on that day that I shall give Gog a burial ground there in Israel, the valley of those who pass by east of the sea, and it will block off the passers-by. So they will bury Gog there with all his multitude, and they will call [it] the valley of Hamon-gog.
"For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them in order to cleanse the land.
"Even all the people of the land will bury [them;] and it will be to their renown [on] the day that I glorify Myself," declares the Lord God.
"And they will set apart men who will constantly pass through the land, burying those who were passing through, even those left on the surface of the ground, in order to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make a search.
"And as those who pass through the land pass through and anyone sees a man's bone, then he will set up a marker by it until the buriers have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog.
"And even [the] name of [the] city will be Hamonah. So they will cleanse the land."'
"And as for you, son of man, thus says the Lord God, 'Speak to every kind of bird and to every beast of the field," Assemble and come, gather from every side to My sacrifice which I am going to sacrifice for you, as a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
"You shall eat the flesh of mighty men, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, as [though they were] rams, lambs, goats, and bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
"So you will eat fat until you are glutted, and drink blood until you are drunk, from My sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
"And you will be glutted at My table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all the men of war," declares the Lord God.
"And I shall set My glory among the nations; and all the nations will see My judgment which I have executed, and My hand which I have laid on them.
"And the house of Israel will know that I am the Lord their God from that day onward.
"And the nations will know that the house of Israel went into exile for their iniquity because they acted treacherously against Me, and I hid My face from them; so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and all of them fell by the sword.
"According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I dealt with them, and I hid My face from them."' "
Therefore thus says the Lord God, "Now I shall restore the fortunes of Jacob, and have mercy on the whole house of Israel; and I shall be jealous for My holy name.
"And they shall forget their disgrace and all their treachery which they perpetrated against Me, when they live securely on their [own] land with no one to make them afraid.
"When I bring them back from the peoples and gather them from the lands of their enemies, then I shall be sanctified through them in the sight of the many nations.
"Then they will know that I am the Lord their God because I made them go into exile among the nations, and then gathered them [again] to their own land; and I will leave none of them there any longer.
"And I will not hide My face from them any longer, for I shall have poured out My Spirit on the house of Israel," declares the Lord God.
