Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me saying,
"And you, son of man, thus says the Lord God to the land of Israel, 'An end! The end is coming on the four corners of the land.
'Now the end is upon you, and I shall send My anger against you; I shall judge you according to your ways, and I shall bring all your abominations upon you.
'For My eye will have no pity on you, nor shall I spare [you,] but I shall bring your ways upon you, and your abominations will be among you; then you will know that I am the Lord!'
"Thus says the Lord God, 'A disaster, unique disaster, behold it is coming!
'An end is coming; the end has come! It has awakened against you; behold, it has come!
'Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come, the day is near-- tumult rather than joyful shouting on the mountains.
'Now I will shortly pour out My wrath on you, and spend My anger against you, judge you according to your ways, and bring on you all your abominations.
'And My eye will show no pity, nor will I spare. I will repay you according to your ways, while your abominations are in your midst; then you will know that I, the Lord, do the smiting.
' Behold, the day! Behold, it is coming! [Your] doom has gone forth; the rod has budded, arrogance has blossomed.
'Violence has grown into a rod of wickedness. None of them [shall remain], none of their multitude, none of their wealth, nor anything eminent among them.
'The time has come, the day has arrived. Let not the buyer rejoice nor the seller mourn; for wrath is against all their multitude.
'Indeed, the seller will not regain what he sold as long as they [both] live; for the vision regarding all their multitude will not be averted, nor will any of them maintain his life by his iniquity.
' They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but no one is going to the battle; for My wrath is against all their multitude.
'The sword is outside, and the plague and the famine are within. He who is in the field will die by the sword; famine and the plague will also consume those in the city.
'Even when their survivors escape, they will be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, each over his own iniquity.
'All hands will hang limp, and all knees will become like water.
'And they will gird themselves with sackcloth, and shuddering will overwhelm them; and shame [will be] on all faces, and baldness on all their heads.
'They shall fling their silver into the streets, and their gold shall become an abhorrent thing; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They cannot satisfy their appetite, nor can they fill their stomachs, for their iniquity has become an occasion of stumbling.
'And they transformed the beauty of His ornaments into pride, and they made the images of their abominations [and] their detestable things with it; therefore I will make it an abhorrent thing to them.
'And I shall give it into the hands of the foreigners as plunder and to the wicked of the earth as spoil, and they will profane it.
'I shall also turn My face from them, and they will profane My secret place; then robbers will enter and profane it.
' Make the chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence.
'Therefore, I shall bring the worst of the nations, and they will possess their houses. I shall also make the pride of the strong ones cease, and their holy places will be profaned.
'When anguish comes, they will seek peace, but there will be none.
'Disaster will come upon disaster, and rumor will be [added] to rumor; then they will seek a vision from a prophet, but the law will be lost from the priest and counsel from the elders.
'The king will mourn, the prince will be clothed with horror, and the hands of the people of the land will tremble. According to their conduct I shall deal with them, and by their judgments I shall judge them. And they will know that I am the Lord.' "
