Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing toward the east;
and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the way of the east. And His voice was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shone with His glory.
And [it was] like the appearance of the vision which I saw, like the vision which I saw when He came to destroy the city. And the visions [were] like the vision which I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
And the glory of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate facing toward the east.
And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court; and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house.
Then I heard one speaking to me from the house, while a man was standing beside me.
And He said to me, "Son of man, [this is] the place of My throne and the place of the soles of My feet, where I will dwell among the sons of Israel forever. And the house of Israel will not again defile My holy name, neither they nor their kings, by their harlotry and by the corpses of their kings when they die,
by setting their threshold by My threshold, and their door post beside My door post, with [only] the wall between Me and them. And they have defiled My holy name by their abominations which they have committed. So I have consumed them in My anger.
"Now let them put away their harlotry and the corpses of their kings far from Me; and I will dwell among them forever.
"As for you, son of man, describe the temple to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure the plan.
"And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the house, its structure, its exits, its entrances, all its designs, all its statutes, and all its laws. And write [it] in their sight, so that they may observe its whole design and all its statutes, and do them.
"This is the law of the house: its entire area on the top of the mountain all around [shall be] most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.
"And these are the measurements of the altar by cubits (the cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth): the base [shall be] a cubit, and the width a cubit, and its border on its edge round about one span; and this [shall be] the [height of the] base of the altar.
"And from the base on the ground to the lower ledge [shall be] two cubits, and the width one cubit; and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge [shall be] four cubits, and the width one cubit.
"And the altar hearth [shall be] four cubits; and from the altar hearth shall extend upwards four horns.
"Now the altar hearth [shall be] twelve [cubits] long by twelve wide, square in its four sides.
"And the ledge [shall be] fourteen [cubits] long by fourteen wide in its four sides, the border around it [shall be] half a cubit, and its base [shall be] a cubit round about; and its steps shall face the east."
And He said to me, "Son of man, thus says the Lord God, 'These are the statutes for the altar on the day it is built, to offer burnt offerings on it and to sprinkle blood on it.
'And you shall give to the Levitical priests who are from the offspring of Zadok, who draw near to Me to minister to Me,' declares the Lord God,' a young bull for a sin offering.
'And you shall take some of its blood, and put it on its four horns, and on the four corners of the ledge, and on the border round about; thus you shall cleanse it and make atonement for it.
'You shall also take the bull for the sin offering; and it [shall be] burned in the appointed place of the house, outside the sanctuary.
'And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering; and they shall cleanse the altar, as they cleansed [it] with the bull.
'When you have finished cleansing [it,] you shall present a young bull without blemish and a ram without blemish from the flock.
'And you shall present them before the Lord, and the priests shall throw salt on them, and they shall offer them up as a burnt offering to the Lord.
'For seven days you shall prepare daily a goat for a sin offering; also a young bull and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be prepared.
'For seven days they shall make atonement for the altar and purify it; so shall they consecrate it.
'And when they have completed the days, it shall be that on the eighth day and onward, the priests shall offer your burnt offerings on the altar, and your peace offerings; and I will accept you,' declares the Lord God. "
