Let love of the brethren continue.
Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it.
Remember the prisoners, as though in prison with them, and those who are ill-treated, since you yourselves also are in the body.
[Let] marriage [be held] in honor among all, and let the [marriage] bed [be] undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
Let your character be free from the love of money, being content with what you have; for He Himself has said, "I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you,"
so that we confidently say, "The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What shall man do to me?"
Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you; and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith.
Jesus Christ [is] the same yesterday and today, [yes] and forever.
Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings; for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, through which those who were thus occupied were not benefited.
We have an altar, from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.
For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest [as an offering] for sin, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
Hence, let us go out to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
For here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking [the city] which is to come.
Through Him then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that give thanks to His name.
And do not neglect doing good and sharing; for with such sacrifices God is pleased.
Obey your leaders, and submit [to them]; for they keep watch over your souls, as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you.
Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a good conscience, desiring to conduct ourselves honorably in all things.
And I urge [you] all the more to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the eternal covenant, [even] Jesus our Lord,
equip you in every good thing to do His will, working in us that which is pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom [be] the glory forever and ever. Amen.
But I urge you, brethren, bear with this word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly.
Take notice that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I shall see you.
Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all.
