Therefore, let us fear lest, while a promise remains of entering His rest, any one of you should seem to have come short of it.
For indeed we have had good news preached to us, just as they also; but the word they heard did not profit them, because it was not united by faith in those who heard.
For we who have believed enter that rest, just as He has said, "As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter My rest," although His works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For He has thus said somewhere concerning the seventh [day], "And God rested on the seventh day from all His works";
and again in this [passage], "They shall not enter My rest."
Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly had good news preached to them failed to enter because of disobedience,
He again fixes a certain day, "Today," saying through David after so long a time just as has been said before, "Today if you hear His voice, Do not harden your hearts."
For if Joshua had given them rest, He would not have spoken of another day after that.
There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
For the one who has entered His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His.
Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall through [following] the same example of disobedience.
For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of Him with whom we have to do.
Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all things as [we are, yet] without sin.
Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help in time of need.
