A wise son [accepts his] father's discipline, But a scoffer does not listen to rebuke.
From the fruit of a man's mouth he enjoys good, But the desire of the treacherous is violence.
The one who guards his mouth preserves his life; The one who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.
The soul of the sluggard craves and [gets] nothing, But the soul of the diligent is made fat.
A righteous man hates falsehood, But a wicked man acts disgustingly and shamefully.
Righteousness guards the one whose way is blameless, But wickedness subverts the sinner.
There is one who pretends to be rich, but has nothing; [Another] pretends to be poor, but has great wealth.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches, But the poor hears no rebuke.
The light of the righteous rejoices, But the lamp of the wicked goes out.
Through presumption comes nothing but strife, But with those who receive counsel is wisdom.
Wealth [obtained] by fraud dwindles, But the one who gathers by labor increases [it.]
Hope deferred makes the heart sick, But desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
The one who despises the word will be in debt to it, But the one who fears the commandment will be rewarded.
The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, To turn aside from the snares of death.
Good understanding produces favor, But the way of the treacherous is hard.
Every prudent man acts with knowledge, But a fool displays folly.
A wicked messenger falls into adversity, But a faithful envoy [brings] healing.
Poverty and shame [will come] to him who neglects discipline, But he who regards reproof will be honored.
Desire realized is sweet to the soul, But it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
He who walks with wise men will be wise, But the companion of fools will suffer harm.
Adversity pursues sinners, But the righteous will be rewarded with prosperity.
A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, And the wealth of the sinner is stored up for the righteous.
Abundant food [is in] the fallow ground of the poor, But it is swept away by injustice.
He who spares his rod hates his son, But he who loves him disciplines him diligently.
The righteous has enough to satisfy his appetite, But the stomach of the wicked is in want.
