Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, But he who hates reproof is stupid.
A good man will obtain favor from the Lord, But He will condemn a man who devises evil.
A man will not be established by wickedness, But the root of the righteous will not be moved.
An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, But she who shames [him] is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are just, [But] the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, But the mouth of the upright will deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown and are no more, But the house of the righteous will stand.
A man will be praised according to his insight, But one of perverse mind will be despised.
Better is he who is lightly esteemed and has a servant, Than he who honors himself and lacks bread.
A righteous man has regard for the life of his beast, But the compassion of the wicked is cruel.
He who tills his land will have plenty of bread, But he who pursues vain [things] lacks sense.
The wicked desires the booty of evil men, But the root of the righteous yields [fruit.]
An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, But the righteous will escape from trouble.
A man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his words, And the deeds of a man's hands will return to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, But a wise man is he who listens to counsel.
A fool's vexation is known at once, But a prudent man conceals dishonor.
He who speaks truth tells what is right, But a false witness, deceit.
There is one who speaks rashly like the thrusts of a sword, But the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Truthful lips will be established forever, But a lying tongue is only for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, But counselors of peace have joy.
No harm befalls the righteous, But the wicked are filled with trouble.
Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, But those who deal faithfully are His delight.
A prudent man conceals knowledge, But the heart of fools proclaims folly.
The hand of the diligent will rule, But the slack [hand] will be put to forced labor.
Anxiety in the heart of a man weighs it down, But a good word makes it glad.
The righteous is a guide to his neighbor, But the way of the wicked leads them astray.
A slothful man does not roast his prey, But the precious possession of a man [is] diligence.
In the way of righteousness is life, And in [its] pathway there is no death.
