The wise woman builds her house, But the foolish tears it down with her own hands.
He who walks in his uprightness fears the Lord, But he who is crooked in his ways despises Him.
In the mouth of the foolish is a rod for [his] back, But the lips of the wise will preserve them.
Where no oxen are, the manger is clean, But much increase [comes] by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness will not lie, But a false witness speaks lies.
A scoffer seeks wisdom, and [finds] none, But knowledge is easy to him who has understanding.
Leave the presence of a fool, Or you will not discern words of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way, But the folly of fools is deceit.
Fools mock at sin, But among the upright there is good will.
The heart knows its own bitterness, And a stranger does not share its joy.
The house of the wicked will be destroyed, But the tent of the upright will flourish.
There is a way [which seems] right to a man, But its end is the way of death.
Even in laughter the heart may be in pain, And the end of joy may be grief.
The backslider in heart will have his fill of his own ways, But a good man will [be satisfied] with his.
The naive believes everything, But the prudent man considers his steps.
A wise man is cautious and turns away from evil, But a fool is arrogant and careless.
A quick-tempered man acts foolishly, And a man of evil devices is hated.
The naive inherit folly, But the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil will bow down before the good, And the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is hated even by his neighbor, But those who love the rich are many.
He who despises his neighbor sins, But happy is he who is gracious to the poor.
Will they not go astray who devise evil? But kindness and truth [will be to] those who devise good.
In all labor there is profit, But mere talk [leads] only to poverty.
The crown of the wise is their riches, [But] the folly of fools is foolishness.
A truthful witness saves lives, But he who speaks lies is treacherous.
In the fear of the Lord there is strong confidence, And his children will have refuge.
The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, That one may avoid the snares of death.
In a multitude of people is a king's glory, But in the dearth of people is a prince's ruin.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, But he who is quick-tempered exalts folly.
A tranquil heart is life to the body, But passion is rottenness to the bones.
He who oppresses the poor reproaches his Maker, But he who is gracious to the needy honors Him.
The wicked is thrust down by his wrongdoing, But the righteous has a refuge when he dies.
Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, But in the bosom of fools it is made known.
Righteousness exalts a nation, But sin is a disgrace to [any] people.
The king's favor is toward a servant who acts wisely, But his anger is toward him who acts shamefully.
