My son, do not forget my teaching, But let your heart keep my commandments;
For length of days and years of life, And peace they will add to you.
Do not let kindness and truth leave you; Bind them around your neck, Write them on the tablet of your heart.
So you will find favor and good repute In the sight of God and man.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart, And do not lean on your own understanding.
In all your ways acknowledge Him, And He will make your paths straight.
Do not be wise in your own eyes; Fear the Lord and turn away from evil.
It will be healing to your body, And refreshment to your bones.
Honor the Lord from your wealth, And from the first of all your produce;
So your barns will be filled with plenty, And your vats will overflow with new wine.
My son, do not reject the discipline of the Lord, Or loathe His reproof,
For whom the Lord loves He reproves, Even as a father, the son in whom he delights.
How blessed is the man who finds wisdom, And the man who gains understanding.
For its profit is better than the profit of silver, And its gain than fine gold.
She is more precious than jewels; And nothing you desire compares with her.
Long life is in her right hand; In her left hand are riches and honor.
Her ways are pleasant ways, And all her paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, And happy are all who hold her fast.
The Lord by wisdom founded the earth; By understanding He established the heavens.
By His knowledge the deeps were broken up, And the skies drip with dew.
My son, let them not depart from your sight; Keep sound wisdom and discretion,
So they will be life to your soul, And adornment to your neck.
Then you will walk in your way securely, And your foot will not stumble.
When you lie down, you will not be afraid; When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.
Do not be afraid of sudden fear, Nor of the onslaught of the wicked when it comes;
For the Lord will be your confidence, And will keep your foot from being caught.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, When it is in your power to do [it.]
Do not say to your neighbor, "Go, and come back, And tomorrow I will give [it,]" When you have it with you.
Do not devise harm against your neighbor, While he lives in security beside you.
Do not contend with a man without cause, If he has done you no harm.
Do not envy a man of violence, And do not choose any of his ways.
For the crooked [man] is an abomination to the Lord; But He is intimate with the upright.
The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, But He blesses the dwelling of the righteous.
Though He scoffs at the scoffers, Yet He gives grace to the afflicted.
The wise will inherit honor, But fools display dishonor.
