When you sit down to dine with a ruler, Consider carefully what is before you;
And put a knife to your throat, If you are a man of [great] appetite.
Do not desire his delicacies, For it is deceptive food.
Do not weary yourself to gain wealth, Cease from your consideration [of it.]
When you set your eyes on it, it is gone. For [wealth] certainly makes itself wings, Like an eagle that flies [toward] the heavens.
Do not eat the bread of a selfish man, Or desire his delicacies;
For as he thinks within himself, so he is. He says to you, "Eat and drink!" But his heart is not with you.
You will vomit up the morsel you have eaten, And waste your compliments.
Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, For he will despise the wisdom of your words.
Do not move the ancient boundary, Or go into the fields of the fatherless;
For their Redeemer is strong; He will plead their case against you.
Apply your heart to discipline, And your ears to words of knowledge.
Do not hold back discipline from the child, Although you beat him with the rod, he will not die.
You shall beat him with the rod, And deliver his soul from Sheol.
My son, if your heart is wise, My own heart also will be glad;
And my inmost being will rejoice, When your lips speak what is right.
Do not let your heart envy sinners, But [live] in the fear of the Lord always.
Surely there is a future, And your hope will not be cut off.
Listen, my son, and be wise, And direct your heart in the way.
Do not be with heavy drinkers of wine, [Or] with gluttonous eaters of meat;
For the heavy drinker and the glutton will come to poverty, And drowsiness will clothe [a man] with rags.
Listen to your father who begot you, And do not despise your mother when she is old.
Buy truth, and do not sell [it,] [Get] wisdom and instruction and understanding.
The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice, And he who begets a wise son will be glad in him.
Let your father and your mother be glad, And let her rejoice who gave birth to you.
Give me your heart, my son, And let your eyes delight in my ways.
For a harlot is a deep pit, And an adulterous woman is a narrow well.
Surely she lurks as a robber, And increases the faithless among men.
Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes?
Those who linger long over wine, Those who go to taste mixed wine.
Do not look on the wine when it is red, When it sparkles in the cup, When it goes down smoothly;
At the last it bites like a serpent, And stings like a viper.
Your eyes will see strange things, And your mind will utter perverse things.
And you will be like one who lies down in the middle of the sea, Or like one who lies down on the top of a mast.
"They struck me, [but] I did not become ill; They beat me, [but] I did not know [it.] When shall I awake? I will seek another drink."
