The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the oracle.  The man declares to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal:
Surely I am more stupid than any man, And I do not have the understanding of a man.
Neither have I learned wisdom, Nor do I have the knowledge of the Holy One.
Who has ascended into heaven and descended? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has wrapped the waters in His garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is His name or His son's name? Surely you know!
Every word of God is tested; He is a shield to those who take refuge in Him.
Do not add to His words Lest He reprove you, and you be proved a liar.
Two things I asked of Thee, Do not refuse me before I die:
Keep deception and lies far from me, Give me neither poverty nor riches; Feed me with the food that is my portion,
Lest I be full and deny [Thee] and say, "Who is the Lord?" Or lest I be in want and steal, And profane the name of my God.
Do not slander a slave to his master, Lest he curse you and you be found guilty.
There is a kind of [man] who curses his father, And does not bless his mother.
There is a kind who is pure in his own eyes, Yet is not washed from his filthiness.
There is a kind-- oh how lofty are his eyes! And his eyelids are raised [in arrogance.]
There is a kind of [man] whose teeth are [like] swords, And his jaw teeth [like] knives, To devour the afflicted from the earth, And the needy from among men.
The leech has two daughters, "Give," "Give." There are three things that will not be satisfied, Four that will not say, "Enough":
Sheol, and the barren womb, Earth that is never satisfied with water, And fire that never says, "Enough."
The eye that mocks a father, And scorns a mother, The ravens of the valley will pick it out, And the young eagles will eat it.
There are three things which are too wonderful for me, Four which I do not understand:
The way of an eagle in the sky, The way of a serpent on a rock, The way of a ship in the middle of the sea, And the way of a man with a maid.
This is the way of an adulterous woman: She eats and wipes her mouth, And says, "I have done no wrong."
Under three things the earth quakes, And under four, it cannot bear up:
Under a slave when he becomes king, And a fool when he is satisfied with food,
Under an unloved woman when she gets a husband, And a maidservant when she supplants her mistress.
Four things are small on the earth, But they are exceedingly wise:
The ants are not a strong folk, But they prepare their food in the summer;
The badgers are not mighty folk, Yet they make their houses in the rocks;
The locusts have no king, Yet all of them go out in ranks;
The lizard you may grasp with the hands, Yet it is in kings' palaces.
There are three things which are stately in [their] march, Even four which are stately when they walk:
The lion [which] is mighty among beasts And does not retreat before any,
The strutting cock, the male goat also, And a king [when his] army is with him.
If you have been foolish in exalting yourself Or if you have plotted [evil, put your] hand on your mouth.
For the churning of milk produces butter, And pressing the nose brings forth blood; So the churning of anger produces strife.
