The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a father glad, But a foolish son is a grief to his mother.
Ill-gotten gains do not profit, But righteousness delivers from death.
The Lord will not allow the righteous to hunger, But He will thrust [aside] the craving of the wicked.
Poor is he who works with a negligent hand, But the hand of the diligent makes rich.
He who gathers in summer is a son who acts wisely, [But] he who sleeps in harvest is a son who acts shamefully.
Blessings are on the head of the righteous, But the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
The memory of the righteous is blessed, But the name of the wicked will rot.
The wise of heart will receive commands, But a babbling fool will be thrown down.
He who walks in integrity walks securely, But he who perverts his ways will be found out.
He who winks the eye causes trouble, And a babbling fool will be thrown down.
The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, But the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
Hatred stirs up strife, But love covers all transgressions.
On the lips of the discerning, wisdom is found, But a rod is for the back of him who lacks understanding.
Wise men store up knowledge, But with the mouth of the foolish, ruin is at hand.
The rich man's wealth is his fortress, The ruin of the poor is their poverty.
The wages of the righteous is life, The income of the wicked, punishment.
He is [on] the path of life who heeds instruction, But he who forsakes reproof goes astray.
He who conceals hatred [has] lying lips, And he who spreads slander is a fool.
When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable, But he who restrains his lips is wise.
The tongue of the righteous is [as] choice silver, The heart of the wicked is [worth] little.
The lips of the righteous feed many, But fools die for lack of understanding.
It is the blessing of the Lord that makes rich, And He adds no sorrow to it.
Doing wickedness is like sport to a fool; And [so is] wisdom to a man of understanding.
What the wicked fears will come upon him, And the desire of the righteous will be granted.
When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more, But the righteous [has] an everlasting foundation.
Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, So is the lazy one to those who send him.
The fear of the Lord prolongs life, But the years of the wicked will be shortened.
The hope of the righteous is gladness, But the expectation of the wicked perishes.
The way of the Lord is a stronghold to the upright, But ruin to the workers of iniquity.
The righteous will never be shaken, But the wicked will not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the righteous flows with wisdom, But the perverted tongue will be cut out.
The lips of the righteous bring forth what is acceptable, But the mouth of the wicked, what is perverted.
