The plans of the heart belong to man, But the answer of the tongue is from the Lord.
All the ways of a man are clean in his own sight, But the Lord weighs the motives.
Commit your works to the Lord, And your plans will be established.
The Lord has made everything for its own purpose, Even the wicked for the day of evil.
Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord; Assuredly, he will not be unpunished.
By lovingkindness and truth iniquity is atoned for, And by the fear of the Lord one keeps away from evil.
When a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness Than great income with injustice.
The mind of man plans his way, But the Lord directs his steps.
A divine decision is in the lips of the king; His mouth should not err in judgment.
A just balance and scales belong to the Lord; All the weights of the bag are His concern.
It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness, For a throne is established on righteousness.
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, And he who speaks right is loved.
The wrath of a king is [as] messengers of death, But a wise man will appease it.
In the light of a king's face is life, And his favor is like a cloud with the spring rain.
How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! And to get understanding is to be chosen above silver.
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil; He who watches his way preserves his life.
Pride [goes] before destruction, And a haughty spirit before stumbling.
It is better to be of a humble spirit with the lowly, Than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He who gives attention to the word shall find good, And blessed is he who trusts in the Lord.
The wise in heart will be called discerning, And sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness.
Understanding is a fountain of life to him who has it, But the discipline of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise teaches his mouth, And adds persuasiveness to his lips.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, Sweet to the soul and healing to the bones.
There is a way [which seems] right to a man, But its end is the way of death.
A worker's appetite works for him, For his hunger urges him [on.]
A worthless man digs up evil, While his words are as a scorching fire.
A perverse man spreads strife, And a slanderer separates intimate friends.
A man of violence entices his neighbor, And leads him in a way that is not good.
He who winks his eyes [does so] to devise perverse things; He who compresses his lips brings evil to pass.
A gray head is a crown of glory; It is found in the way of righteousness.
He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his spirit, than he who captures a city.
The lot is cast into the lap, But its every decision is from the Lord.
