"These things I have spoken to you, that you may be kept from stumbling.
"They will make you outcasts from the synagogue, but an hour is coming for everyone who kills you to think that he is offering service to God.
"And these things they will do, because they have not known the Father, or Me.
"But these things I have spoken to you, that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told you of them. And these things I did not say to you at the beginning, because I was with you.
"But now I am going to Him who sent Me; and none of you asks Me, 'Where are You going?'
"But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
"But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper shall not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you.
"And He, when He comes, will convict the world concerning sin, and righteousness, and judgment;
concerning sin, because they do not believe in Me;
and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you no longer behold Me;
and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
"I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear [them] now.
"But when He, the Spirit of truth, comes, He will guide you into all the truth; for He will not speak on His own initiative, but whatever He hears, He will speak; and He will disclose to you what is to come.
"He shall glorify Me; for He shall take of Mine, and shall disclose [it] to you.
"All things that the Father has are Mine; therefore I said, that He takes of Mine, and will disclose [it] to you.
"A little while, and you will no longer behold Me; and again a little while, and you will see Me."
[Some] of His disciples therefore said to one another, "What is this thing He is telling us, 'A little while, and you will not behold Me; and again a little while, and you will see Me'; and, 'because I go to the Father'?"
And so they were saying, "What is this that He says, 'A little while'? We do not know what He is talking about."
Jesus knew that they wished to question Him, and He said to them, "Are you deliberating together about this, that I said, 'A little while, and you will not behold Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me'?
"Truly, truly, I say to you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned to joy.
"Whenever a woman is in travail she has sorrow, because her hour has come; but when she gives birth to the child, she remembers the anguish no more, for joy that a child has been born into the world.
"Therefore you too now have sorrow; but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy away from you.
"And in that day you will ask Me no question. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you shall ask the Father for anything, He will give it to you in My name.
"Until now you have asked for nothing in My name; ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full.
"These things I have spoken to you in figurative language; an hour is coming when I will speak no more to you in figurative language, but will tell you plainly of the Father.
"In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will request the Father on your behalf;
for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father.
"I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world; I am leaving the world again, and going to the Father."
His disciples *said, "Lo, now You are speaking plainly, and are not using a figure of speech.
"Now we know that You know all things, and have no need for anyone to question You; by this we believe that You came from God."
Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?
"Behold, an hour is coming, and has [already] come, for you to be scattered, each to his own [home,] and to leave Me alone; and [yet] I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.
"These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage; I have overcome the world."
