But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
And early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people were coming to Him; and He sat down and [began] to teach them.
And the scribes and the Pharisees *brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the midst,
they *said to Him, "Teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery, in the very act.
"Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women; what then do You say?"
And they were saying this, testing Him, in order that they might have grounds for accusing Him. But Jesus stooped down, and with His finger wrote on the ground.
But when they persisted in asking Him, He straightened up, and said to them, "He who is without sin among you, let him [be the] first to throw a stone at her."
And again He stooped down, and wrote on the ground.
And when they heard it, they [began] to go out one by one, beginning with the older ones, and He was left alone, and the woman, where she was, in the midst.
And straightening up, Jesus said to her, "Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you?"
And she said, "No one, Lord." And Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you; go your way. From now on sin no more."]
Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, "I am the light of the world; he who follows Me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life."
The Pharisees therefore said to Him, "You are bearing witness of Yourself; Your witness is not true."
Jesus answered and said to them, "Even if I bear witness of Myself, My witness is true; for I know where I came from, and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from, or where I am going.
"You people judge according to the flesh; I am not judging anyone.
"But even if I do judge, My judgment is true; for I am not alone [in it,] but I and He who sent Me.
"Even in your law it has been written, that the testimony of two men is true.
"I am He who bears witness of Myself, and the Father who sent Me bears witness of Me."
And so they were saying to Him, "Where is Your Father?" Jesus answered, "You know neither Me, nor My Father; if you knew Me, you would know My Father also."
These words He spoke in the treasury, as He taught in the temple; and no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come.
He said therefore again to them, "I go away, and you shall seek Me, and shall die in your sin; where I am going, you cannot come."
Therefore the Jews were saying, "Surely He will not kill Himself, will He, since He says, 'Where I am going, you cannot come'?"
And He was saying to them, "You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
"I said therefore to you, that you shall die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am [He], you shall die in your sins."
And so they were saying to Him, "Who are You?" Jesus said to them, "What have I been saying to you [from] the beginning?
"I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true; and the things which I heard from Him, these I speak to the world."
They did not realize that He had been speaking to them about the Father.
Jesus therefore said, "When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am [He,] and I do nothing on My own initiative, but I speak these things as the Father taught Me.
"And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to Him."
As He spoke these things, many came to believe in Him.
Jesus therefore was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, "If you abide in My word, [then] you are truly disciples of Mine;
and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. "
They answered Him, "We are Abraham's offspring, and have never yet been enslaved to anyone; how is it that You say, 'You shall become free'?"
Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin.
"And the slave does not remain in the house forever; the son does remain forever.
"If therefore the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.
"I know that you are Abraham's offspring; yet you seek to kill Me, because My word has no place in you.
"I speak the things which I have seen with [My] Father; therefore you also do the things which you heard from [your] father."
They answered and said to Him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus *said to them, "If you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham.
"But as it is, you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God; this Abraham did not do.
"You are doing the deeds of your father." They said to Him, "We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, [even] God."
Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love Me; for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come on My own initiative, but He sent Me.
"Why do you not understand what I am saying? [It is] because you cannot hear My word.
"You are of [your] father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own [nature;] for he is a liar, and the father of lies.
"But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.
"Which one of you convicts Me of sin? If I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?
"He who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear [them,] because you are not of God."
The Jews answered and said to Him, "Do we not say rightly that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?"
Jesus answered, "I do not have a demon; but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
"But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks and judges.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps My word he shall never see death."
The Jews said to Him, "Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets [also]; and You say, 'If anyone keeps My word, he shall never taste of death.'
"Surely You are not greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets died too; whom do You make Yourself out [to be]?"
Jesus answered, "If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say, 'He is our God';
and you have not come to know Him, but I know Him; and if I say that I do not know Him, I shall be a liar like you, but I do know Him, and keep His word.
"Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw [it] and was glad."
The Jews therefore said to Him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?"
Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am."
Therefore they picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself, and went out of the temple.
