And on the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there;
and Jesus also was invited, and His disciples, to the wedding.
And when the wine gave out, the mother of Jesus *said to Him, "They have no wine."
And Jesus *said to her, "Woman, what do I have to do with you? My hour has not yet come."
His mother *said to the servants, "Whatever He says to you, do it."
Now there were six stone waterpots set there for the Jewish custom of purification, containing twenty or thirty gallons each.
Jesus *said to them, "Fill the waterpots with water." And they filled them up to the brim.
And He *said to them, "Draw [some] out now, and take it to the headwaiter." And they took it [to him.]
And when the headwaiter tasted the water which had become wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the headwaiter *called the bridegroom,
and *said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first, and when [men] have drunk freely, [then] that which is poorer; you have kept the good wine until now."
This beginning of [His] signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested His glory, and His disciples believed in Him.
After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother, and [His] brothers, and His disciples; and there they stayed a few days.
And the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And He found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers seated.
And He made a scourge of cords, and drove [them] all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen; and He poured out the coins of the moneychangers, and overturned their tables;
and to those who were selling the doves He said, "Take these things away; stop making My Father's house a house of merchandise."
His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for Thy house will consume me."
The Jews therefore answered and said to Him, "What sign do You show to us, seeing that You do these things?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
The Jews therefore said, "It took forty-six years to build this temple, and will You raise it up in three days?"
But He was speaking of the temple of His body.
When therefore He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He said this; and they believed the Scripture, and the word which Jesus had spoken.
Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in His name, beholding His signs which He was doing.
But Jesus, on His part, was not entrusting Himself to them, for He knew all men,
and because He did not need anyone to bear witness concerning man for He Himself knew what was in man.
