"Let not your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in Me.
"In My Father's house are many dwelling places; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.
"And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you to Myself; that where I am, [there] you may be also.
"And you know the way where I am going."
Thomas *said to Him, "Lord, we do not know where You are going, how do we know the way?"
Jesus *said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but through Me.
"If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; from now on you know Him, and have seen Him."
Philip *said to Him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us."
Jesus *said to him, "Have I been so long with you, and [yet] you have not come to know Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how do you say, 'Show us the Father'?
"Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on My own initiative, but the Father abiding in Me does His works.
"Believe Me that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me; otherwise believe on account of the works themselves.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater [works] than these shall he do; because I go to the Father.
"And whatever you ask in My name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
"If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do [it.]
"If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.
"And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Helper, that He may be with you forever;
[that is] the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know Him, [but] you know Him because He abides with you, and will be in you.
"I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.
"After a little while the world will behold Me no more; but you [will] behold Me; because I live, you shall live also.
"In that day you shall know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
"He who has My commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves Me; and he who loves Me shall be loved by My Father, and I will love him, and will disclose Myself to him."
Judas (not Iscariot) *said to Him, "Lord, what then has happened that You are going to disclose Yourself to us, and not to the world?"
Jesus answered and said to him, "If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word; and My Father will love him, and We will come to him, and make Our abode with him.
"He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me.
"These things I have spoken to you, while abiding with you.
"But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you.
"Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful.
"You heard that I said to you, 'I go away, and I will come to you.' If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced, because I go to the Father; for the Father is greater than I.
"And now I have told you before it comes to pass, that when it comes to pass, you may believe.
"I will not speak much more with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in Me;
but that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave Me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go from here.
