Jesus, therefore, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
So they made Him a supper there, and Martha was serving; but Lazarus was one of those reclining [at the table] with Him.
Mary therefore took a pound of very costly perfume of pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was intending to betray Him, *said,
"Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii, and given to poor [people]?"
Now he said this, not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box, he used to pilfer what was put into it.
Jesus therefore said, "Let her alone, in order that she may keep it for the day of My burial.
"For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have Me."
The great multitude therefore of the Jews learned that He was there; and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He raised from the dead.
But the chief priests took counsel that they might put Lazarus to death also;
because on account of him many of the Jews were going away, and were believing in Jesus.
On the next day the great multitude who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took the branches of the palm trees, and went out to meet Him, and [began] to cry out, "Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel."
And Jesus, finding a young donkey, sat on it; as it is written,
"Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King is coming, seated on a donkey's colt."
These things His disciples did not understand at the first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him, and that they had done these things to Him.
And so the multitude who were with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, were bearing Him witness.
For this cause also the multitude went and met Him, because they heard that He had performed this sign.
The Pharisees therefore said to one another, "You see that you are not doing any good; look, the world has gone after Him."
Now there were certain Greeks among those who were going up to worship at the feast;
these therefore came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and [began to] ask him, saying, "Sir, we wish to see Jesus."
Philip *came and *told Andrew; Andrew and Philip *came, and they * told Jesus.
And Jesus *answered them, saying, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains by itself alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
"He who loves his life loses it; and he who hates his life in this world shall keep it to life eternal.
"If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there shall My servant also be; if anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
"Now My soul has become troubled; and what shall I say, 'Father, save Me from this hour'? But for this purpose I came to this hour.
"Father, glorify Thy name." There came therefore a voice out of heaven: "I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again."
The multitude therefore, who stood by and heard it, were saying that it had thundered; others were saying, "An angel has spoken to Him."
Jesus answered and said, "This voice has not come for My sake, but for your sakes.
"Now judgment is upon this world; now the ruler of this world shall be cast out.
"And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself."
But He was saying this to indicate the kind of death by which He was to die.
The multitude therefore answered Him, "We have heard out of the Law that the Christ is to remain forever; and how can You say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up'? Who is this Son of Man?"
Jesus therefore said to them, "For a little while longer the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness may not overtake you; he who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes.
"While you have the light, believe in the light, in order that you may become sons of light."  These things Jesus spoke, and He departed and hid Himself from them.
But though He had performed so many signs before them, [yet] they were not believing in Him;
that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, "Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
For this cause they could not believe, for Isaiah said again,
"He has blinded their eyes, and He hardened their heart; lest they see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, and be converted, and I heal them."
These things Isaiah said, because he saw His glory, and he spoke of Him.
Nevertheless many even of the rulers believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they were not confessing [Him,] lest they should be put out of the synagogue;
for they loved the approval of men rather than the approval of God.
And Jesus cried out and said, "He who believes in Me does not believe in Me, but in Him who sent Me.
"And he who beholds Me beholds the One who sent Me.
"I have come [as] light into the world, that everyone who believes in Me may not remain in darkness.
"And if anyone hears My sayings, and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
"He who rejects Me, and does not receive My sayings, has one who judges him; the word I spoke is what will judge him at the last day.
"For I did not speak on My own initiative, but the Father Himself who sent Me has given Me commandment, what to say, and what to speak.
"And I know that His commandment is eternal life; therefore the things I speak, I speak just as the Father has told Me."
