And as He passed by, He saw a man blind from birth.
And His disciples asked Him, saying, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he should be born blind?"
Jesus answered, "[It was] neither [that] this man sinned, nor his parents; but [it was] in order that the works of God might be displayed in him.
"We must work the works of Him who sent Me, as long as it is day; night is coming, when no man can work.
"While I am in the world, I am the light of the world."
When He had said this, He spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and applied the clay to his eyes,
and said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which is translated, Sent). And so he went away and washed, and came [back] seeing.
The neighbors therefore, and those who previously saw him as a beggar, were saying, "Is not this the one who used to sit and beg?"
Others were saying, "This is he," [still] others were saying, "No, but he is like him." He kept saying, "I am the one."
Therefore they were saying to him, "How then were your eyes opened?"
He answered, "The man who is called Jesus made clay, and anointed my eyes, and said to me, 'Go to Siloam, and wash'; so I went away and washed, and I received sight."
And they said to him, "Where is He?" He *said, "I do not know."
They *brought to the Pharisees him who was formerly blind.
Now it was a Sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
Again, therefore, the Pharisees also were asking him how he received his sight. And he said to them, "He applied clay to my eyes, and I washed, and I see."
Therefore some of the Pharisees were saying, "This man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath." But others were saying, "How can a man who is a sinner perform such signs?" And there was a division among them.
They *said therefore to the blind man again, "What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes?" And he said, "He is a prophet."
The Jews therefore did not believe [it] of him, that he had been blind, and had received sight, until they called the parents of the very one who had received his sight,
and questioned them, saying, "Is this your son, who you say was born blind? Then how does he now see?"
His parents answered them and said, "We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
but how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; he is of age, he shall speak for himself. "
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed, that if anyone should confess Him to be Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
For this reason his parents said, "He is of age; ask him."
So a second time they called the man who had been blind, and said to him, "Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner."
He therefore answered, "Whether He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see."
They said therefore to him, "What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?"
He answered them, "I told you already, and you did not listen; why do you want to hear [it] again? You do not want to become His disciples too, do you?"
And they reviled him, and said, "You are His disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.
"We know that God has spoken to Moses; but as for this man, we do not know where He is from."
The man answered and said to them, "Well, here is an amazing thing, that you do not know where He is from, and [yet] He opened my eyes.
"We know that God does not hear sinners; but if anyone is God-fearing, and does His will, He hears him.
"Since the beginning of time it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind.
"If this man were not from God, He could do nothing."
They answered and said to him, "You were born entirely in sins, and are you teaching us?" And they put him out.
Jesus heard that they had put him out; and finding him, He said, "Do you believe in the Son of Man?"
He answered and said, "And who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?"
Jesus said to him, "You have both seen Him, and He is the one who is talking with you."
And he said, "Lord, I believe." And he worshiped Him.
And Jesus said, "For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see; and that those who see may become blind."
Those of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things, and said to Him, "We are not blind too, are we?"
Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but since you say, 'We see,' your sin remains.
