In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things came into being by Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.
In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.
There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John.
He came for a witness, that he might bear witness of the light, that all might believe through him.
He was not the light, but [came] that he might bear witness of the light.
There was the true light which, coming into the world, enlightens every man.
He was in the world, and the world was made through Him, and the world did not know Him.
He came to His own, and those who were His own did not receive Him.
But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, [even] to those who believe in His name,
who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth.
John *bore witness of Him, and cried out, saying, "This was He of whom I said, 'He who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for He existed before me.'"
For of His fulness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
For the Law was given through Moses; grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ.
No man has seen God at any time; the only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has explained [Him.]
And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?"
And he confessed, and did not deny, and he confessed, "I am not the Christ."
And they asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" And he *said, "I am not." "Are you the Prophet?" And he answered, "No."
They said then to him, "Who are you, so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?"
He said, "I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as Isaiah the prophet said."
Now they had been sent from the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said to him, "Why then are you baptizing, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?"
John answered them saying, "I baptize in water, [but] among you stands One whom you do not know.
"[It is] He who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie."
These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day he *saw Jesus coming to him, and *said, "Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
"This is He on behalf of whom I said, 'After me comes a Man who has a higher rank than I, for He existed before me.'
"And I did not recognize Him, but in order that He might be manifested to Israel, I came baptizing in water."
And John bore witness saying, "I have beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and He remained upon Him.
"And I did not recognize Him, but He who sent me to baptize in water said to me, 'He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon Him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.'
"And I have seen, and have borne witness that this is the Son of God."
Again the next day John was standing with two of his disciples,
and he looked upon Jesus as He walked, and *said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!"
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
And Jesus turned, and beheld them following, and *said to them, "What do you seek?" And they said to Him, "Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are You staying?"
He *said to them, "Come, and you will see." They came therefore and saw where He was staying; and they stayed with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard John [speak,] and followed Him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
He *found first his own brother Simon, and *said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which translated means Christ).
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, "You are Simon the son of John; you shall be called Cephas" (which is translated Peter).
The next day He purposed to go forth into Galilee, and He *found Philip. And Jesus *said to him, "Follow Me."
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip *found Nathanael and *said to him, "We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and [also] the Prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
And Nathanael *said to him, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip *said to him," Come and see. "
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him, and *said of him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!"
Nathanael *said to Him, "How do You know me?" Jesus answered and said to him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
Nathanael answered Him, "Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel."
Jesus answered and said to him, "Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You shall see greater things than these."
And He *said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you shall see the heavens opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man."
