"I am the true vine, and My Father is the vinedresser.
"Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes away; and every [branch] that bears fruit, He prunes it, that it may bear more fruit.
"You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
"Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, so neither [can] you, unless you abide in Me.
"I am the vine, you are the branches; he who abides in Me, and I in him, he bears much fruit; for apart from Me you can do nothing.
"If anyone does not abide in Me, he is thrown away as a branch, and dries up; and they gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
"If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it shall be done for you.
"By this is My Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, and [so] prove to be My disciples.
"Just as the Father has loved Me, I have also loved you; abide in My love.
"If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love; just as I have kept My Father's commandments, and abide in His love.
"These things I have spoken to you, that My joy may be in you, and [that] your joy may be made full.
"This is My commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you.
"Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.
"You are My friends, if you do what I command you.
"No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from My Father I have made known to you.
"You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and [that] your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask of the Father in My name, He may give to you.
"This I command you, that you love one another.
"If the world hates you, you know that it has hated Me before [it hated] you.
"If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
"Remember the word that I said to you, 'A slave is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you; if they kept My word, they will keep yours also.
"But all these things they will do to you for My name's sake, because they do not know the One who sent Me.
"If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.
"He who hates Me hates My Father also.
"If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated Me and My Father as well.
"But [they have done this] in order that the word may be fulfilled that is written in their Law, 'They hated Me without a cause.'
"When the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, [that is] the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, He will bear witness of Me,
and you [will] bear witness also, because you have been with Me from the beginning.
