Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
And it was the Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
The sisters therefore sent to Him, saying, "Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick."
But when Jesus heard it, He said, "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified by it."
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
When therefore He heard that he was sick, He stayed then two days [longer] in the place where He was.
Then after this He *said to the disciples, "Let us go to Judea again."
The disciples *said to Him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and are You going there again?"
Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
"But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him."
This He said, and after that He *said to them, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I go, that I may awaken him out of sleep."
The disciples therefore said to Him, "Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover."
Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that He was speaking of literal sleep.
Then Jesus therefore said to them plainly, "Lazarus is dead,
and I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe; but let us go to him. "
Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said to [his] fellow disciples, "Let us also go, that we may die with Him."
So when Jesus came, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off;
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to console them concerning [their] brother.
Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him; but Mary still sat in the house.
Martha therefore said to Jesus, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
"Even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You."
Jesus *said to her, "Your brother shall rise again."
Martha *said to Him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."
Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes in Me shall live even if he dies,
and everyone who lives and believes in Me shall never die. Do you believe this? "
She *said to Him, "Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, [even] He who comes into the world."
And when she had said this, she went away, and called Mary her sister, saying secretly, "The Teacher is here, and is calling for you."
And when she heard it, she *arose quickly, and was coming to Him.
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him.
The Jews then who were with her in the house, and consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
Therefore, when Mary came where Jesus was, she saw Him, and fell at His feet, saying to Him, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died."
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her, [also] weeping, He was deeply moved in spirit, and was troubled,
and said, "Where have you laid him?" They *said to Him, "Lord, come and see."
Jesus wept.
And so the Jews were saying, "Behold how He loved him!"
But some of them said, "Could not this man, who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have kept this man also from dying?"
Jesus therefore again being deeply moved within, *came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it.
Jesus *said, "Remove the stone." Martha, the sister of the deceased,* said to Him, "Lord, by this time there will be a stench, for he has been [dead] four days."
Jesus *said to her, "Did I not say to you, if you believe, you will see the glory of God?"
And so they removed the stone. And Jesus raised His eyes, and said, "Father, I thank Thee that Thou heardest Me.
"And I knew that Thou hearest Me always; but because of the people standing around I said it, that they may believe that Thou didst send Me."
And when He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come forth."
He who had died came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings; and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus *said to them, "Unbind him, and let him go."
Many therefore of the Jews, who had come to Mary and beheld what He had done, believed in Him.
But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done.
Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council, and were saying, "What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs.
"If we let Him [go on] like this, all men will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation."
But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all,
nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation should not perish. "
Now this he did not say on his own initiative; but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation,
and not for the nation only, but that He might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
So from that day on they planned together to kill Him.
Jesus therefore no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews, but went away from there to the country near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim; and there He stayed with the disciples.
Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover, to purify themselves.
Therefore they were seeking for Jesus, and were saying to one another, as they stood in the temple, "What do you think; that He will not come to the feast at all?"
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he should report it, that they might seize Him.
