After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep [gate] a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticoes.
In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, [waiting for the moving of the waters;
for an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool, and stirred up the water; whoever then first, after the stirring up of the water, stepped in was made well from whatever disease with which he was afflicted.]
And a certain man was there, who had been thirty-eight years in his sickness.
When Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had already been a long time [in that condition,] He *said to him, "Do you wish to get well?"
The sick man answered Him, "Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am coming, another steps down before me."
Jesus *said to him, "Arise, take up your pallet, and walk."
And immediately the man became well, and took up his pallet and [began] to walk.  Now it was the Sabbath on that day.
Therefore the Jews were saying to him who was cured, "It is the Sabbath, and it is not permissible for you to carry your pallet."
But he answered them, "He who made me well was the one who said to me, 'Take up your pallet and walk.'"
They asked him, "Who is the man who said to you, 'Take up [your pallet,] and walk'?"
But he who was healed did not know who it was; for Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in [that] place.
Afterward Jesus *found him in the temple, and said to him, "Behold, you have become well; do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse may befall you."
The man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well.
And for this reason the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath.
But He answered them, "My Father is working until now, and I Myself am working."
For this cause therefore the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him, because He not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God His own Father, making Himself equal with God.
Jesus therefore answered and was saying to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself, unless [it is] something He sees the Father doing; for whatever [the Father] does, these things the Son also does in like manner.
"For the Father loves the Son, and shows Him all things that He Himself is doing; and greater works than these will He show Him, that you may marvel.
"For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom He wishes.
"For not even the Father judges anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son,
in order that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears My word, and believes Him who sent Me, has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and those who hear shall live.
"For just as the Father has life in Himself, even so He gave to the Son also to have life in Himself;
and He gave Him authority to execute judgment, because He is [the] Son of Man.
"Do not marvel at this; for an hour is coming, in which all who are in the tombs shall hear His voice,
and shall come forth; those who did the good [deeds] to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil [deeds] to a resurrection of judgment.
"I can do nothing on My own initiative. As I hear, I judge; and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me.
"If I [alone] bear witness of Myself, My testimony is not true.
"There is another who bears witness of Me, and I know that the testimony which He bears of Me is true.
"You have sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth.
"But the witness which I receive is not from man, but I say these things that you may be saved.
"He was the lamp that was burning and was shining and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.
"But the witness which I have is greater than [that of] John; for the works which the Father has given Me to accomplish, the very works that I do, bear witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me.
"And the Father who sent Me, He has borne witness of Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor seen His form.
"And you do not have His word abiding in you, for you do not believe Him whom He sent.
"You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is these that bear witness of Me;
and you are unwilling to come to Me, that you may have life.
"I do not receive glory from men;
but I know you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
"I have come in My Father's name, and you do not receive Me; if another shall come in his own name, you will receive him.
"How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another, and you do not seek the glory that is from the [one and] only God?
"Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope.
"For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote of Me.
"But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?"
