And after these things Jesus was walking in Galilee; for He was unwilling to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.
Now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand.
His brothers therefore said to Him, "Depart from here, and go into Judea, that Your disciples also may behold Your works which You are doing.
"For no one does anything in secret, when he himself seeks to be [known] publicly. If You do these things, show Yourself to the world."
For not even His brothers were believing in Him.
Jesus therefore *said to them, "My time is not yet at hand, but your time is always opportune.
"The world cannot hate you; but it hates Me because I testify of it, that its deeds are evil.
"Go up to the feast yourselves; I do not go up to this feast because My time has not yet fully come."
And having said these things to them, He stayed in Galilee.
But when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He Himself also went up, not publicly, but as it were, in secret.
The Jews therefore were seeking Him at the feast, and were saying, "Where is He?"
And there was much grumbling among the multitudes concerning Him; some were saying, "He is a good man"; others were saying, "No, on the contrary, He leads the multitude astray."
Yet no one was speaking openly of Him for fear of the Jews.
But when it was now the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and [began to] teach.
The Jews therefore were marveling, saying, "How has this man become learned, having never been educated?"
Jesus therefore answered them, and said, "My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
"If any man is willing to do His will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it is of God, or [whether] I speak from Myself.
"He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but He who is seeking the glory of the One who sent Him, He is true, and there is no unrighteousness in Him.
"Did not Moses give you the Law, and [yet] none of you carries out the Law? Why do you seek to kill Me?"
The multitude answered, "You have a demon! Who seeks to kill You?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "I did one deed, and you all marvel.
"On this account Moses has given you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on [the] Sabbath you circumcise a man.
"If a man receives circumcision on [the] Sabbath that the Law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made an entire man well on [the] Sabbath?
"Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment."
Therefore some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, "Is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill?
"And look, He is speaking publicly, and they are saying nothing to Him. The rulers do not really know that this is the Christ, do they?
"However, we know where this man is from; but whenever the Christ may come, no one knows where He is from."
Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, "You both know Me and know where I am from; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know.
"I know Him; because I am from Him, and He sent Me."
They were seeking therefore to seize Him; and no man laid his hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
But many of the multitude believed in Him; and they were saying, "When the Christ shall come, He will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will He?"
The Pharisees heard the multitude muttering these things about Him; and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to seize Him.
Jesus therefore said, "For a little while longer I am with you, then I go to Him who sent Me.
"You shall seek Me, and shall not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come."
The Jews therefore said to one another, "Where does this man intend to go that we shall not find Him? He is not intending to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks, is He?
"What is this statement that He said, 'You will seek Me, and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come'?"
Now on the last day, the great [day] of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, "If any man is thirsty, let him come to Me and drink.
"He who believes in Me, as the Scripture said, 'From his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water.'"
But this He spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in Him were to receive; for the Spirit was not yet [given,] because Jesus was not yet glorified.
[Some] of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, "This certainly is the Prophet."
Others were saying, "This is the Christ." Still others were saying, "Surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is He?
"Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?"
So there arose a division in the multitude because of Him.
And some of them wanted to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, "Why did you not bring Him?"
The officers answered, "Never did a man speak the way this man speaks."
The Pharisees therefore answered them, "You have not also been led astray, have you?
"No one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in Him, has he?
"But this multitude which does not know the Law is accursed."
Nicodemus *said to them (he who came to Him before, being one of them),
"Our Law does not judge a man, unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it?"
They answered and said to him, "You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search, and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee."
[And everyone went to his home.
