Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged Him.
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and arrayed Him in a purple robe;
and they [began] to come up to Him, and say, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and to give Him blows [in the face.]
And Pilate came out again, and *said to them, "Behold, I am bringing Him out to you, that you may know that I find no guilt in Him."
Jesus therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And [Pilate] *said to them, "Behold, the Man!"
When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw Him, they cried out, saying, "Crucify, crucify!" Pilate *said to them, "Take Him yourselves, and crucify Him, for I find no guilt in Him."
The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and by that law He ought to die because He made Himself out [to be] the Son of God."
When Pilate therefore heard this statement, he was the more afraid;
and he entered into the Praetorium again, and *said to Jesus, "Where are You from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.
Pilate therefore *said to Him, "You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You, and I have authority to crucify You?"
Jesus answered, "You would have no authority over Me, unless it had been given you from above; for this reason he who delivered Me up to you has [the] greater sin."
As a result of this Pilate made efforts to release Him, but the Jews cried out, saying, "If you release this Man, you are no friend of Caesar; everyone who makes himself out [to be] a king opposes Caesar."
When Pilate therefore heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he *said to the Jews, "Behold, your King!"
They therefore cried out, "Away with [Him], away with [Him,] crucify Him!" Pilate *said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar."
So he then delivered Him to them to be crucified.
They took Jesus therefore, and He went out, bearing His own cross, to the place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha.
There they crucified Him, and with Him two other men, one on either side, and Jesus in between.
And Pilate wrote an inscription also, and put it on the cross. And it was written, "JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS."
Therefore this inscription many of the Jews read, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, [and] in Greek.
And so the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews'; but that He said,' I am King of the Jews. '"
Pilate answered, "What I have written I have written."
The soldiers therefore, when they had crucified Jesus, took His outer garments and made four parts, a part to every soldier and [also] the tunic; now the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece.
They said therefore to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, [to decide] whose it shall be"; that the Scripture might be fulfilled, "They divided My outer garments among them, and for My clothing they cast lots."
Therefore the soldiers did these things. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus His mother, and His mother's sister, Mary the [wife] of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
When Jesus therefore saw His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing nearby, He *said to His mother, "Woman, behold, your son!"
Then He *said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her into his own [household.]
After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had already been accomplished, in order that the Scripture might be fulfilled, *said, "I am thirsty."
A jar full of sour wine was standing there; so they put a sponge full of the sour wine upon [a branch of] hyssop, and brought it up to His mouth.
When Jesus therefore had received the sour wine, He said, "It is finished!" And He bowed His head, and gave up His spirit.
The Jews therefore, because it was the day of preparation, so that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high [day]), asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and [that] they might be taken away.
The soldiers therefore came, and broke the legs of the first man, and of the other man who was crucified with Him;
but coming to Jesus, when they saw that He was already dead, they did not break His legs;
but one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately there came out blood and water.
And he who has seen has borne witness, and his witness is true; and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you also may believe.
For these things came to pass, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, "Not a bone of Him shall be broken."
And again another Scripture says, "They shall look on Him whom they pierced."
And after these things Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a secret [one,] for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus; and Pilate granted permission. He came therefore, and took away His body.
And Nicodemus came also, who had first come to Him by night; bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds [weight].
And so they took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen wrappings with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews.
Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had yet been laid.
Therefore on account of the Jewish day of preparation, because the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there.
