But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,
but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it happened that while they were perplexed about this, behold, two men suddenly stood near them in dazzling apparel;
and as [the women] were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, [the men] said to them, "Why do you seek the living One among the dead?
"He is not here, but He has risen. Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee,
saying that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. "
And they remembered His words,
and returned from the tomb and reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
Now they were Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the [mother] of James; also the other women with them were telling these things to the apostles.
And these words appeared to them as nonsense, and they would not believe them.
[But Peter arose and ran to the tomb; stooping and looking in, he * saw the linen wrappings only; and he went away to his home, marveling at that which had happened.]
And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem.
And they were conversing with each other about all these things which had taken place.
And it came about that while they were conversing and discussing, Jesus Himself approached, and [began] traveling with them.
But their eyes were prevented from recognizing Him.
And He said to them, "What are these words that you are exchanging with one another as you are walking?" And they stood still, looking sad.
And one of them, named Cleopas, answered and said to Him, "Are You the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened here in these days?"
And He said to them, "What things?" And they said to Him, "The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word in the sight of God and all the people,
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him up to the sentence of death, and crucified Him.
"But we were hoping that it was He who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, it is the third day since these things happened.
"But also some women among us amazed us. When they were at the tomb early in the morning,
and did not find His body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that He was alive.
"And some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the women also had said; but Him they did not see."
And He said to them, "O foolish men and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!
"Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into His glory?"
And beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, He explained to them the things concerning Himself in all the Scriptures.
And they approached the village where they were going, and He acted as though He would go farther.
And they urged Him, saying, "Stay with us, for it is [getting] toward evening, and the day is now nearly over." And He went in to stay with them.
And it came about that when He had reclined [at the table] with them, He took the bread and blessed [it,] and breaking [it,] He [began] giving [it] to them.
And their eyes were opened and they recognized Him; and He vanished from their sight.
And they said to one another, "Were not our hearts burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, while He was explaining the Scriptures to us?"
And they arose that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with them,
saying, "The Lord has really risen, and has appeared to Simon."
And they [began] to relate their experiences on the road and how He was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread.
And while they were telling these things, He Himself stood in their midst.
But they were startled and frightened and thought that they were seeing a spirit.
And He said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
"See My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself; touch Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have."
[And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His feet.]
And while they still could not believe [it] for joy and were marveling, He said to them, "Have you anything here to eat?"
And they gave Him a piece of a broiled fish;
and He took it and ate [it] before them.
Now He said to them, "These are My words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about Me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled."
Then He opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
and He said to them, "Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day;
and that repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
"You are witnesses of these things.
"And behold, I am sending forth the promise of My Father upon you; but you are to stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high."
And He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His hands and blessed them.
And it came about that while He was blessing them, He parted from them.
And they returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and were continually in the temple, praising God.
