Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was approaching.
And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might put Him to death; for they were afraid of the people.
And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, belonging to the number of the twelve.
And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray Him to them.
And they were glad, and agreed to give him money.
And he consented, and [began] seeking a good opportunity to betray Him to them apart from the multitude.
Then came the [first] day of Unleavened Bread on which the Passover [lamb] had to be sacrificed.
And He sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat it."
And they said to Him, "Where do You want us to prepare it?"
And He said to them, "Behold, when you have entered the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water; follow him into the house that he enters.
"And you shall say to the owner of the house, 'The Teacher says to you," Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with My disciples? "'
"And he will show you a large, furnished, upper room; prepare it there."
And they departed and found [everything] just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
And when the hour had come He reclined [at the table,] and the apostles with Him.
And He said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer;
for I say to you, I shall never again eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. "
And when He had taken a cup [and] given thanks, He said, "Take this and share it among yourselves;
for I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine from now on until the kingdom of God comes. "
And when He had taken [some] bread [and] given thanks, He broke [it,] and gave [it] to them, saying, "This is My body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of Me."
And in the same way [He took] the cup after they had eaten, saying, "This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in My blood.
"But behold, the hand of the one betraying Me is with Me on the table.
"For indeed, the Son of Man is going as it has been determined; but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!"
And they began to discuss among themselves which one of them it might be who was going to do this thing.
And there arose also a dispute among them [as to] which one of them was regarded to be greatest.
And He said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who have authority over them are called 'Benefactors.'
"But not so with you, but let him who is the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as the servant.
"For who is greater, the one who reclines [at the table,] or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines [at the table]? But I am among you as the one who serves.
"And you are those who have stood by Me in My trials;
and just as My Father has granted Me a kingdom, I grant you
that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
"Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded [permission] to sift you like wheat;
but I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail; and you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. "
And he said to Him, "Lord, with You I am ready to go both to prison and to death!"
And He said, "I say to you, Peter, the cock will not crow today until you have denied three times that you know Me."
And He said to them, "When I sent you out without purse and bag and sandals, you did not lack anything, did you?" And they said, "[No,] nothing."
And He said to them, "But now, let him who has a purse take it along, likewise also a bag, and let him who has no sword sell his robe and buy one.
"For I tell you, that this which is written must be fulfilled in Me, ' And He was numbered with transgressors ';for that which refers to Me has [its] fulfillment."
And they said, "Lord, look, here are two swords." And He said to them, "It is enough."
And He came out and proceeded as was His custom to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed Him.
And when He arrived at the place, He said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation."
And He withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and He knelt down and [began] to pray,
saying, "Father, if Thou art willing, remove this cup from Me; yet not My will, but Thine be done."
Now an angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him.
And being in agony He was praying very fervently; and His sweat became like drops of blood, falling down upon the ground.
And when He rose from prayer, He came to the disciples and found them sleeping from sorrow,
and said to them, "Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation."
While He was still speaking, behold, a multitude [came,] and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was preceding them; and he approached Jesus to kiss Him.
But Jesus said to him, "Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?"
And when those who were around Him saw what was going to happen, they said, "Lord, shall we strike with the sword?"
And a certain one of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
But Jesus answered and said, "Stop! No more of this." And He touched his ear and healed him.
And Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders who had come against Him, "Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber?
"While I was with you daily in the temple, you did not lay hands on Me; but this hour and the power of darkness are yours."
And having arrested Him, they led Him [away,] and brought Him to the house of the high priest; but Peter was following at a distance.
And after they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter was sitting among them.
And a certain servant-girl, seeing him as he sat in the firelight, and looking intently at him, said, "This man was with Him too."
But he denied [it,] saying, "Woman, I do not know Him."
And a little later, another saw him and said, "You are [one] of them too!" But Peter said, "Man, I am not!"
And after about an hour had passed, another man [began] to insist, saying, "Certainly this man also was with Him, for he is a Galilean too."
But Peter said, "Man, I do not know what you are talking about." And immediately, while he was still speaking, a cock crowed.
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had told him, "Before a cock crows today, you will deny Me three times."
And he went out and wept bitterly.
And the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking Him, and beating Him,
and they blindfolded Him and were asking Him, saying, "Prophesy, who is the one who hit You?"
And they were saying many other things against Him, blaspheming.
And when it was day, the Council of elders of the people assembled, both chief priests and scribes, and they led Him away to their council [chamber,] saying,
"If You are the Christ, tell us." But He said to them, "If I tell you, you will not believe;
and if I ask a question, you will not answer.
"But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God."
And they all said, "Are You the Son of God, then?" And He said to them, "Yes, I am."
And they said, "What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from His own mouth."
