Now on the same occasion there were some present who reported to Him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
And He answered and said to them, "Do you suppose that these Galileans were [greater] sinners than all [other] Galileans, because they suffered this [fate?]
"I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
"Or do you suppose that those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, were [worse] culprits than all the men who live in Jerusalem?
"I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish."
And He [began] telling this parable: "A certain man had a fig tree which had been planted in his vineyard; and he came looking for fruit on it, and did not find any.
"And he said to the vineyard-keeper, 'Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree without finding any. Cut it down! Why does it even use up the ground?'
"And he answered and said to him, 'Let it alone, sir, for this year too, until I dig around it and put in fertilizer;
and if it bears fruit next year, [fine;] but if not, cut it down.' "
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
And behold, there was a woman who for eighteen years had had a sickness caused by a spirit; and she was bent double, and could not straighten up at all.
And when Jesus saw her, He called her over and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your sickness."
And He laid His hands upon her; and immediately she was made erect again, and [began] glorifying God.
And the synagogue official, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, [began] saying to the multitude in response, "There are six days in which work should be done; therefore come during them and get healed, and not on the Sabbath day."
But the Lord answered him and said, "You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the stall, and lead him away to water [him?]
"And this woman, a daughter of Abraham as she is, whom Satan has bound for eighteen long years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day?"
And as He said this, all His opponents were being humiliated; and the entire multitude was rejoicing over all the glorious things being done by Him.
Therefore He was saying, "What is the kingdom of God like, and to what shall I compare it?
"It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden; and it grew and became a tree; and the birds of the air nested in its branches."
And again He said, "To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
"It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three pecks of meal, until it was all leavened."
And He was passing through from one city and village to another, teaching, and proceeding on His way to Jerusalem.
And someone said to Him, "Lord, are there [just] a few who are being saved?" And He said to them,
"Strive to enter by the narrow door; for many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able.
"Once the head of the house gets up and shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, 'Lord, open up to us!' then He will answer and say to you, 'I do not know where you are from.'
"Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in Your presence, and You taught in our streets';
and He will say,' I tell you, I do not know where you are from; depart from Me, all you evildoers.'
"There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth there when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves being cast out.
"And they will come from east and west, and from north and south, and will recline [at the table] in the kingdom of God.
"And behold, [some] are last who will be first and [some] are first who will be last."
Just at that time some Pharisees came up, saying to Him, "Go away and depart from here, for Herod wants to kill You."
And He said to them, "Go and tell that fox, 'Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third [day] I reach My goal.'
"Nevertheless I must journey on today and tomorrow and the next [day;] for it cannot be that a prophet should perish outside of Jerusalem.
"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, [the city] that kills the prophets and stones those sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, just as a hen [gathers] her brood under her wings, and you would not [have it!]
"Behold, your house is left to you [desolate;] and I say to you, you shall not see Me until [the time] comes when you say, 'Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!'"
