Now He was telling them a parable to show that at all times they ought to pray and not to lose heart,
saying, "There was in a certain city a judge who did not fear God, and did not respect man.
"And there was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him, saying, 'Give me legal protection from my opponent.'
"And for a while he was unwilling; but afterward he said to himself, 'Even though I do not fear God nor respect man,
yet because this widow bothers me, I will give her legal protection, lest by continually coming she wear me out.' "
And the Lord said, "Hear what the unrighteous judge *said;
now shall not God bring about justice for His elect, who cry to Him day and night, and will He delay long over them?
"I tell you that He will bring about justice for them speedily. However, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on the earth?"
And He also told this parable to certain ones who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and viewed others with contempt:
"Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax-gatherer.
"The Pharisee stood and was praying thus to himself, 'God, I thank Thee that I am not like other people: swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax-gatherer.
'I fast twice a week; I pay tithes of all that I get.'
"But the tax-gatherer, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast, saying, 'God, be merciful to me, the sinner!'
"I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, but he who humbles himself shall be exalted."
And they were bringing even their babies to Him so that He might touch them, but when the disciples saw it, they [began] rebuking them.
But Jesus called for them, saying, "Permit the children to come to Me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
"Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it [at all.]"
And a certain ruler questioned Him, saying, "Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"
And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone.
"You know the commandments, 'Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.'"
And he said, "All these things I have kept from [my] youth."
And when Jesus heard [this,] He said to him, "One thing you still lack; sell all that you possess, and distribute it to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me."
But when he had heard these things, he became very sad; for he was extremely rich.
And Jesus looked at him and said, "How hard it is for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God!
"For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God."
And they who heard it said, "Then who can be saved?"
But He said, "The things impossible with men are possible with God."
And Peter said, "Behold, we have left our own [homes,] and followed You."
And He said to them, "Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who shall not receive many times as much at this time and in the age to come, eternal life. "
And He took the twelve aside and said to them, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things which are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be accomplished.
"For He will be delivered to the Gentiles, and will be mocked and mistreated and spit upon,
and after they have scourged Him, they will kill Him; and the third day He will rise again. "
And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend the things that were said.
And it came about that as He was approaching Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting by the road, begging.
Now hearing a multitude going by, he [began] to inquire what this might be.
And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by.
And he called out, saying, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
And those who led the way were sternly telling him to be quiet; but he kept crying out all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
And Jesus stopped and commanded that he be brought to Him; and when he had come near, He questioned him,
"What do you want Me to do for you?" And he said, "Lord, [I want] to regain my sight!"
And Jesus said to him, "Receive your sight; your faith has made you well."
And immediately he regained his sight, and [began] following Him, glorifying God; and when all the people saw it, they gave praise to God.
