Then the whole body of them arose and brought Him before Pilate.
And they began to accuse Him, saying, "We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that He Himself is Christ, a King."
And Pilate asked Him, saying, "Are You the King of the Jews?" And He answered him and said, "[It is as] you say."
And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, "I find no guilt in this man."
But they kept on insisting, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching all over Judea, starting from Galilee, even as far as this place."
But when Pilate heard it, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
And when he learned that He belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who himself also was in Jerusalem at that time.
Now Herod was very glad when he saw Jesus; for he had wanted to see Him for a long time, because he had been hearing about Him and was hoping to see some sign performed by Him.
And he questioned Him at some length; but He answered him nothing.
And the chief priests and the scribes were standing there, accusing Him vehemently.
And Herod with his soldiers, after treating Him with contempt and mocking Him, dressed Him in a gorgeous robe and sent Him back to Pilate.
Now Herod and Pilate became friends with one another that very day; for before they had been at enmity with each other.
And Pilate summoned the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
and said to them, "You brought this man to me as one who incites the people to rebellion, and behold, having examined Him before you, I have found no guilt in this man regarding the charges which you make against Him.
"No, nor has Herod, for he sent Him back to us; and behold, nothing deserving death has been done by Him.
"I will therefore punish Him and release Him."
[Now he was obliged to release to them at the feast one prisoner.]
But they cried out all together, saying, "Away with this man, and release for us Barabbas!"
(He was one who had been thrown into prison for a certain insurrection made in the city, and for murder.)
And Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again,
but they kept on calling out, saying, "Crucify, crucify Him!"
And he said to them the third time, "Why, what evil has this man done? I have found in Him no guilt [demanding] death; I will therefore punish Him and release Him."
But they were insistent, with loud voices asking that He be crucified. And their voices [began] to prevail.
And Pilate pronounced sentence that their demand should be granted.
And he released the man they were asking for who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, but he delivered Jesus to their will.
And when they led Him away, they laid hold of one Simon of Cyrene, coming in from the country, and placed on him the cross to carry behind Jesus.
And there were following Him a great multitude of the people, and of women who were mourning and lamenting Him.
But Jesus turning to them said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, stop weeping for Me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
"For behold, the days are coming when they will say, 'Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.'
"Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us.'
"For if they do these things in the green tree, what will happen in the dry?"
And two others also, who were criminals, were being led away to be put to death with Him.
And when they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified Him and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left.
But Jesus was saying, "Father, forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing." And they cast lots, dividing up His garments among themselves.
And the people stood by, looking on. And even the rulers were sneering at Him, saying, "He saved others; let Him save Himself if this is the Christ of God, His Chosen One."
And the soldiers also mocked Him, coming up to Him, offering Him sour wine,
and saying, "If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself!"
Now there was also an inscription above Him, "THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS."
And one of the criminals who were hanged [there] was hurling abuse at Him, saying, "Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!"
But the other answered, and rebuking him said, "Do you not even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?
"And we indeed justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong."
And he was saying, "Jesus, remember me when You come in Your kingdom!"
And He said to him, "Truly I say to you, today you shall be with Me in Paradise."
And it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour,
the sun being obscured; and the veil of the temple was torn in two.
And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said, "Father, into Thy hands I commit My spirit." And having said this, He breathed His last.
Now when the centurion saw what had happened, he [began] praising God, saying, "Certainly this man was innocent."
And all the multitudes who came together for this spectacle, when they observed what had happened, [began] to return, beating their breasts.
And all His acquaintances and the women who accompanied Him from Galilee, were standing at a distance, seeing these things.
And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a member of the Council, a good and righteous man
(he had not consented to their plan and action), [a man] from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who was waiting for the kingdom of God;
this man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And he took it down and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid Him in a tomb cut into the rock, where no one had ever lain.
And it was the preparation day, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
Now the women who had come with Him out of Galilee followed after, and saw the tomb and how His body was laid.
And they returned and prepared spices and perfumes.  And on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.
