Now it came about that while the multitude were pressing around Him and listening to the word of God, He was standing by the lake of Gennesaret;
and He saw two boats lying at the edge of the lake; but the fishermen had gotten out of them, and were washing their nets.
And He got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little way from the land. And He sat down and [began] teaching the multitudes from the boat.
And when He had finished speaking, He said to Simon, "Put out into the deep water and let down your nets for a catch."
And Simon answered and said, "Master, we worked hard all night and caught nothing, but at Your bidding I will let down the nets."
And when they had done this, they enclosed a great quantity of fish; and their nets [began] to break;
and they signaled to their partners in the other boat, for them to come and help them. And they came, and filled both of the boats, so that they began to sink.
But when Simon Peter saw [that,] he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord!"
For amazement had seized him and all his companions because of the catch of fish which they had taken;
and so also James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, "Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men."
And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed Him.
And it came about that while He was in one of the cities, behold, [there was] a man full of leprosy; and when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and implored Him, saying, "Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean."
And He stretched out His hand, and touched him, saying, "I am willing; be cleansed." And immediately the leprosy left him.
And He ordered him to tell no one, "But go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, just as Moses commanded, for a testimony to them."
But the news about Him was spreading even farther, and great multitudes were gathering to hear [Him] and to be healed of their sicknesses.
But He Himself would [often] slip away to the wilderness and pray.
And it came about one day that He was teaching; and there were [some] Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting [there,] who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and [from] Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was [present] for Him to perform healing.
And behold, [some] men [were] carrying on a bed a man who was paralyzed; and they were trying to bring him in, and to set him down in front of Him.
And not finding any [way] to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down through the tiles with his stretcher, right in the center, in front of Jesus.
And seeing their faith, He said, "Friend, your sins are forgiven you."
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, "Who is this [man] who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?"
But Jesus, aware of their reasonings, answered and said to them, "Why are you reasoning in your hearts?
"Which is easier, to say, 'Your sins have been forgiven you,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'?
"But in order that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,"-- He said to the paralytic-- "I say to you, rise, and take up your stretcher and go home."
And at once he rose up before them, and took up what he had been lying on, and went home, glorifying God.
And they were all seized with astonishment and [began] glorifying God; and they were filled with fear, saying, "We have seen remarkable things today."
And after that He went out, and noticed a tax-gatherer named Levi, sitting in the tax office, and He said to him, "Follow Me."
And he left everything behind, and rose and [began] to follow Him.
And Levi gave a big reception for Him in his house; and there was a great crowd of tax-gatherers and other [people] who were reclining [at the table] with them.
And the Pharisees and their scribes [began] grumbling at His disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with the tax-gatherers and sinners?"
And Jesus answered and said to them, "[It is] not those who are well who need a physician, but those who are sick.
"I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance."
And they said to Him, "The disciples of John often fast and offer prayers; the [disciples] of the Pharisees also do the same; but Yours eat and drink."
And Jesus said to them, "You cannot make the attendants of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them, can you?
"But [the] days will come; and when the bridegroom is taken away from them, then they will fast in those days."
And He was also telling them a parable: "No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment; otherwise he will both tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old.
"And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled out, and the skins will be ruined.
"But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
"And no one, after drinking old [wine] wishes for new; for he says, 'The old is good [enough.]'"
