And it came about on one of the days while He was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, that the chief priests and the scribes with the elders confronted [Him,]
and they spoke, saying to Him, "Tell us by what authority You are doing these things, or who is the one who gave You this authority?"
And He answered and said to them, "I shall also ask you a question, and you tell Me:
"Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men?"
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' He will say,' Why did you not believe him? '
"But if we say, 'From men,' all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet."
And they answered that they did not know where [it came] from.
And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."
And He began to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard and rented it out to vine-growers, and went on a journey for a long time.
"And at the [harvest] time he sent a slave to the vine-growers, in order that they might give him [some] of the produce of the vineyard; but the vine-growers beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
"And he proceeded to send another slave; and they beat him also and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed.
"And he proceeded to send a third; and this one also they wounded and cast out.
"And the owner of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.'
"But when the vine-growers saw him, they reasoned with one another, saying, 'This is the heir; let us kill him that the inheritance may be ours.'
"And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What, therefore, will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
"He will come and destroy these vine-growers and will give the vineyard to others." And when they heard it, they said, "May it never be!"
But He looked at them and said, "What then is this that is written,  'The stone which the builders rejected, This became the chief corner [stone]'?
"Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust."
And the scribes and the chief priests tried to lay hands on Him that very hour, and they feared the people; for they understood that He spoke this parable against them.
And they watched Him, and sent spies who pretended to be righteous, in order that they might catch Him in some statement, so as to deliver Him up to the rule and the authority of the governor.
And they questioned Him, saying, "Teacher, we know that You speak and teach correctly, and You are not partial to any, but teach the way of God in truth.
"Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"
But He detected their trickery and said to them,
"Show Me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have?" And they said, "Caesar's."
And He said to them, "Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
And they were unable to catch Him in a saying in the presence of the people; and marveling at His answer, they became silent.
Now there came to Him some of the Sadducees (who say that there is no resurrection),
and they questioned Him, saying, "Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife, and he is childless, his brother should take the wife and raise up offspring to his brother.
"Now there were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and died childless;
and the second
and the third took her; and in the same way all seven died, leaving no children.
"Finally the woman died also.
"In the resurrection therefore, which one's wife will she be? For all seven had her as wife."
And Jesus said to them, "The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,
but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage;
for neither can they die anymore, for they are like angels, and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
"But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the [passage about the burning] bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
"Now He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; for all live to Him."
And some of the scribes answered and said, "Teacher, You have spoken well."
For they did not have courage to question Him any longer about anything.
And He said to them, "How [is it that] they say the Christ is David's son?
"For David himself says in the book of Psalms, 'The Lord said to my Lord," Sit at My right hand,
Until I make Thine enemies a footstool for Thy feet. "'
"David therefore calls Him 'Lord,' and how is He his son?"
And while all the people were listening, He said to the disciples,
"Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love respectful greetings in the market places, and chief seats in the synagogues, and places of honor at banquets,
who devour widows' houses, and for appearance's sake offer long prayers; these will receive greater condemnation. "
