And He entered and was passing through Jericho.
And behold, there was a man called by the name of Zaccheus; and he was a chief tax-gatherer, and he was rich.
And he was trying to see who Jesus was, and he was unable because of the crowd, for he was small in stature.
And he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree in order to see Him, for He was about to pass through that way.
And when Jesus came to the place, He looked up and said to him, "Zaccheus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay at your house."
And he hurried and came down, and received Him gladly.
And when they saw it, they all [began] to grumble, saying, "He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner."
And Zaccheus stopped and said to the Lord, "Behold, Lord, half of my possessions I will give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I will give back four times as much."
And Jesus said to him, "Today salvation has come to this house, because he, too, is a son of Abraham.
"For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost."
And while they were listening to these things, He went on to tell a parable, because He was near Jerusalem, and they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately.
He said therefore, "A certain nobleman went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself, and [then] return.
"And he called ten of his slaves, and gave them ten minas, and said to them, 'Do business [with this] until I come [back.]'
"But his citizens hated him, and sent a delegation after him, saying, 'We do not want this man to reign over us.'
"And it came about that when he returned, after receiving the kingdom, he ordered that these slaves, to whom he had given the money, be called to him in order that he might know what business they had done.
"And the first appeared, saying, 'Master, your mina has made ten minas more.'
"And he said to him, 'Well done, good slave, because you have been faithful in a very little thing, be in authority over ten cities.'
"And the second came, saying, 'Your mina, master, has made five minas.'
"And he said to him also, 'And you are to be over five cities.'
"And another came, saying, 'Master, behold your mina, which I kept put away in a handkerchief;
for I was afraid of you, because you are an exacting man; you take up what you did not lay down, and reap what you did not sow.'
"He *said to him, 'By your own words I will judge you, you worthless slave. Did you know that I am an exacting man, taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow?
'Then why did you not put the money in the bank, and having come, I would have collected it with interest?'
"And he said to the bystanders, 'Take the mina away from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.'
"And they said to him, 'Master, he has ten minas [already.]'
"I tell you, that to everyone who has shall [more] be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away.
"But these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them in my presence."
And after He had said these things, He was going on ahead, ascending to Jerusalem.
And it came about that when He approached Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount that is called Olivet, He sent two of the disciples,
saying, "Go into the village opposite [you,] in which as you enter you will find a colt tied, on which no one yet has ever sat; untie it, and bring it [here.]
"And if anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?' thus shall you speak, 'The Lord has need of it.'"
And those who were sent went away and found it just as He had told them.
And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?"
And they said, "The Lord has need of it."
And they brought it to Jesus, and they threw their garments on the colt, and put Jesus [on it.]
And as He was going, they were spreading their garments in the road.
And as He was now approaching, near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to praise God joyfully with a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen,
saying, "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord; Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!"
And some of the Pharisees in the multitude said to Him, "Teacher, rebuke Your disciples."
And He answered and said, "I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out!"
And when He approached, He saw the city and wept over it,
saying, "If you had known in this day, even you, the things which make for peace! But now they have been hidden from your eyes.
"For the days shall come upon you when your enemies will throw up a bank before you, and surround you, and hem you in on every side,
and will level you to the ground and your children within you, and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation. "
And He entered the temple and began to cast out those who were selling,
saying to them, "It is written, 'And My house shall be a house of prayer,' but you have made it a robbers' den."
And He was teaching daily in the temple; but the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people were trying to destroy Him,
and they could not find anything that they might do, for all the people were hanging upon His words.
