Paul, an apostle (not [sent] from men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
and all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom [be] the glory forevermore. Amen.
I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting Him who called you by the grace of Christ, for a different gospel;
which is [really] not another; only there are some who are disturbing you, and want to distort the gospel of Christ.
But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed.
For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bond-servant of Christ.
For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but [I received it] through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you have heard of my former manner of life in Judaism, how I used to persecute the church of God beyond measure, and tried to destroy it;
and I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries among my countrymen, being more extremely zealous for my ancestral traditions.
But when He who had set me apart, [even] from my mother's womb, and called me through His grace, was pleased
to reveal His Son in me, that I might preach Him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; but I went away to Arabia, and returned once more to Damascus.
Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Cephas, and stayed with him fifteen days.
But I did not see any other of the apostles except James, the Lord's brother.
(Now in what I am writing to you, I assure you before God that I am not lying.)
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
And I was [still] unknown by sight to the churches of Judea which were in Christ;
but only, they kept hearing, "He who once persecuted us is now preaching the faith which he once tried to destroy."
And they were glorifying God because of me.
