Therefore you are without excuse, every man [of you] who passes judgment, for in that you judge another, you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.
And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things.
And do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment upon those who practice such things and do the same [yourself,] that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you think lightly of the riches of His kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance?
But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
who will render to every man according to his deeds:
to those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life;
but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath and indignation.
[There will be] tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek,
but glory and honor and peace to every man who does good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
For there is no partiality with God.
For all who have sinned without the Law will also perish without the Law; and all who have sinned under the Law will be judged by the Law;
for not the hearers of the Law are just before God, but the doers of the Law will be justified.
For when Gentiles who do not have the Law do instinctively the things of the Law, these, not having the Law, are a law to themselves,
in that they show the work of the Law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them,
on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus.
But if you bear the name "Jew," and rely upon the Law, and boast in God,
and know [His] will, and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the Law,
and are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having in the Law the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth,
you, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one should not steal, do you steal?
You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?
You who boast in the Law, through your breaking the Law, do you dishonor God?
For "the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you," just as it is written.
For indeed circumcision is of value, if you practice the Law; but if you are a transgressor of the Law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
If therefore the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the Law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision?
And will not he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the Law, will he not judge you who though having the letter [of the Law] and circumcision are a transgressor of the Law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.
But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his praise is not from men, but from God.
