Now we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those without strength and not [just] please ourselves.
Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to his edification.
For even Christ did not please Himself; but as it is written, "The reproaches of those who reproached Thee fell upon Me."
For whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, that through perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Now may the God who gives perseverance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind with one another according to Christ Jesus;
that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Wherefore, accept one another, just as Christ also accepted us to the glory of God.
For I say that Christ has become a servant to the circumcision on behalf of the truth of God to confirm the promises [given] to the fathers,
and for the Gentiles to glorify God for His mercy; as it is written,  "Therefore I will give praise to Thee among the Gentiles, And I will sing to Thy name."
And again he says, "Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people."
And again, "Praise the Lord all you Gentiles, And let all the peoples praise Him."
And again Isaiah says, "There shall come the root of Jesse, And He who arises to rule over the Gentiles, In Him shall the Gentiles hope."
Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
And concerning you, my brethren, I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able also to admonish one another.
But I have written very boldly to you on some points, so as to remind you again, because of the grace that was given me from God,
to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, ministering as a priest the gospel of God, that [my] offering of the Gentiles might become acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Therefore in Christ Jesus I have found reason for boasting in things pertaining to God.
For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed,
in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit; so that from Jerusalem and round about as far as Illyricum I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.
And thus I aspired to preach the gospel, not where Christ was [already] named, that I might not build upon another man's foundation;
but as it is written, "They who had no news of Him shall see, And they who have not heard shall understand."
For this reason I have often been hindered from coming to you;
but now, with no further place for me in these regions, and since I have had for many years a longing to come to you
whenever I go to Spain-- for I hope to see you in passing, and to be helped on my way there by you, when I have first enjoyed your company for a while--
but now, I am going to Jerusalem serving the saints.
For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make a contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
Yes, they were pleased [to do so,] and they are indebted to them. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they are indebted to minister to them also in material things.
Therefore, when I have finished this, and have put my seal on this fruit of theirs, I will go on by way of you to Spain.
And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fulness of the blessing of Christ.
Now I urge you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
that I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and [that] my service for Jerusalem may prove acceptable to the saints;
so that I may come to you in joy by the will of God and find [refreshing] rest in your company.
Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
