Or do you not know, brethren (for I am speaking to those who know the law), that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives?
For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living; but if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband.
So then if, while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress; but if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the Law through the body of Christ, that you might be joined to another, to Him who was raised from the dead, that we might bear fruit for God.
For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were [aroused] by the Law, were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death.
But now we have been released from the Law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in oldness of the letter.
What shall we say then? Is the Law sin? May it never be! On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the Law; for I would not have known about coveting if the Law had not said, "You shall not covet."
But sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, produced in me coveting of every kind; for apart from the Law sin [is] dead.
And I was once alive apart from the Law; but when the commandment came, sin became alive, and I died;
and this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me;
for sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me.
So then, the Law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
Therefore did that which is good become [a cause of] death for me? May it never be! Rather it was sin, in order that it might be shown to be sin by effecting my death through that which is good, that through the commandment sin might become utterly sinful.
For we know that the Law is spiritual; but I am of flesh, sold into bondage to sin.
For that which I am doing, I do not understand; for I am not practicing what I [would] like to [do,] but I am doing the very thing I hate.
But if I do the very thing I do not wish [to do], I agree with the Law, [confessing] that it is good.
So now, no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which indwells me.
For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh; for the wishing is present in me, but the doing of the good [is] not.
For the good that I wish, I do not do; but I practice the very evil that I do not wish.
But if I am doing the very thing I do not wish, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me.
I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wishes to do good.
For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man,
but I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members.
Wretched man that I am! Who will set me free from the body of this death?
Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, on the one hand I myself with my mind am serving the law of God, but on the other, with my flesh the law of sin.
