Brethren, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for them is for [their] salvation.
For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge.
For not knowing about God's righteousness, and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
For Moses writes that the man who practices the righteousness which is based on law shall live by that righteousness.
But the righteousness based on faith speaks thus, "Do not say in your heart, 'Who will ascend into heaven?' (that is, to bring Christ down),
or' Who will descend into the abyss?' (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead). "
But what does it say? "The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart"-- that is, the word of faith which we are preaching,
that if you confess with your mouth Jesus [as] Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you shall be saved;
for with the heart man believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation.
For the Scripture says, "Whoever believes in Him will not be disappointed."
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same [Lord] is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call upon Him;
for "Whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved."
How then shall they call upon Him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in Him whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher?
And how shall they preach unless they are sent? Just as it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of good things!"
However, they did not all heed the glad tidings; for Isaiah says, " Lord, who has believed our report? "
So faith [comes] from hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ.
But I say, surely they have never heard, have they? Indeed they have; "Their voice has gone out into all the earth, And their words to the ends of the world."
But I say, surely Israel did not know, did they? At the first Moses says, "I will make you jealous by that which is not a nation, By a nation without understanding will I anger you."
And Isaiah is very bold and says, "I was found by those who sought Me not, I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me."
But as for Israel He says, "All the day long I have stretched out My hands to a disobedient and obstinate people."
