In the same way, you wives, be submissive to your own husbands so that even if any [of them] are disobedient to the word, they may be won without a word by the behavior of their wives,
as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior.
And let not your adornment be [merely] external-- braiding the hair, and wearing gold jewelry, or putting on dresses;
but [let it be] the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God.
For in this way in former times the holy women also, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves, being submissive to their own husbands.
Thus Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, and you have become her children if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear.
You husbands likewise, live with [your wives] in an understanding way, as with a weaker vessel, since she is a woman; and grant her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
To sum up, let all be harmonious, sympathetic, brotherly, kindhearted, and humble in spirit;
not returning evil for evil, or insult for insult, but giving a blessing instead; for you were called for the very purpose that you might inherit a blessing.
For, "Let him who means to love life and see good days Refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking guile.
"And let him turn away from evil and do good; Let him seek peace and pursue it.
"For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, And His ears attend to their prayer, But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil."
And who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good?
But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, [you are] blessed. And do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled,
but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always [being] ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence;
and keep a good conscience so that in the thing in which you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame.
For it is better, if God should will it so, that you suffer for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong.
For Christ also died for sins once for all, [the] just for [the] unjust, in order that He might bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit;
in which also He went and made proclamation to the spirits [now] in prison,
who once were disobedient, when the patience of God kept waiting in the days of Noah, during the construction of the ark, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through [the] water.
And corresponding to that, baptism now saves you-- not the removal of dirt from the flesh, but an appeal to God for a good conscience-- through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, after angels and authorities and powers had been subjected to Him.
