When I would heal Israel, The iniquity of Ephraim is uncovered, And the evil deeds of Samaria, For they deal falsely; The thief enters in, Bandits raid outside,
And they do not consider in their hearts That I remember all their wickedness. Now their deeds are all around them; They are before My face.
With their wickedness they make the king glad, And the princes with their lies.
They are all adulterers Like an oven heated by the baker, Who ceases to stir up [the fire] From the kneading of the dough until it is leavened.
On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; He stretched out his hand with scoffers,
For their hearts are like an oven [As] they approach their plotting; Their anger smolders all night, In the morning it burns like a flaming fire.
All of them are hot like an oven, And they consume their rulers; All their kings have fallen. None of them calls on Me.
Ephraim mixes himself with the nations; Ephraim has become a cake not turned.
Strangers devour his strength, Yet he does not know [it]; Gray hairs also are sprinkled on him, Yet he does not know [it.]
Though the pride of Israel testifies against him, Yet they have neither returned to the Lord their God, Nor have they sought Him, for all this.
So Ephraim has become like a silly dove, without sense; They call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.
When they go, I will spread My net over them; I will bring them down like the birds of the sky. I will chastise them in accordance with the proclamation to their assembly.
Woe to them, for they have strayed from Me! Destruction is theirs, for they have rebelled against Me! I would redeem them, but they speak lies against Me.
And they do not cry to Me from their heart When they wail on their beds; For the sake of grain and new wine they assemble themselves, They turn away from Me.
Although I trained [and] strengthened their arms, Yet they devise evil against Me.
They turn, [but] not upward, They are like a deceitful bow; Their princes will fall by the sword Because of the insolence of their tongue. This [will be] their derision in the land of Egypt.
