Now the word of the Lord came to me saying,
"Go and proclaim in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, 'Thus says the Lord, "I remember concerning you the devotion of your youth, The love of your betrothals, Your following after Me in the wilderness, Through a land not sown.
"Israel was holy to the Lord, The first of His harvest; All who ate of it became guilty; Evil came upon them," declares the Lord.' "
Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel.
Thus says the Lord, "What injustice did your fathers find in Me, That they went far from Me And walked after emptiness and became empty?
"And they did not say, 'Where is the Lord Who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, Who led us through the wilderness, Through a land of deserts and of pits, Through a land of drought and of deep darkness, Through a land that no one crossed And where no man dwelt?'
"And I brought you into the fruitful land, To eat its fruit and its good things. But you came and defiled My land, And My inheritance you made an abomination.
"The priests did not say, 'Where is the Lord?' And those who handle the law did not know Me; The rulers also transgressed against Me, And the prophets prophesied by Baal And walked after things that did not profit.
"Therefore I will yet contend with you," declares the Lord, "And with your sons' sons I will contend.
"For cross to the coastlands of Kittim and see, And send to Kedar and observe closely, And see if there has been such [a thing] as this!
"Has a nation changed gods, When they were not gods? But My people have changed their glory For that which does not profit.
"Be appalled, O heavens, at this, And shudder, be very desolate," declares the Lord.
"For My people have committed two evils: They have forsaken Me, The fountain of living waters, To hew for themselves cisterns, Broken cisterns, That can hold no water.
"Is Israel a slave? Or is he a homeborn servant? Why has he become a prey?
"The young lions have roared at him, They have roared loudly. And they have made his land a waste; His cities have been destroyed, without inhabitant.
"Also the men of Memphis and Tahpanhes Have shaved the crown of your head.
"Have you not done this to yourself, By your forsaking the Lord your God, When He led you in the way?
"But now what are you doing on the road to Egypt, To drink the waters of the Nile? Or what are you doing on the road to Assyria, To drink the waters of the Euphrates?
"Your own wickedness will correct you, And your apostasies will reprove you; Know therefore and see that it is evil and bitter For you to forsake the Lord your God, And the dread of Me is not in you," declares the Lord God of hosts.
"For long ago I broke your yoke [And] tore off your bonds; But you said, 'I will not serve!' For on every high hill And under every green tree You have lain down as a harlot.
"Yet I planted you a choice vine, A completely faithful seed. How then have you turned yourself before Me Into the degenerate shoots of a foreign vine?
"Although you wash yourself with lye And use much soap, The stain of your iniquity is before Me," declares the Lord God.
"How can you say, 'I am not defiled, I have not gone after the Baals'? Look at your way in the valley! Know what you have done! You are a swift young camel entangling her ways,
A wild donkey accustomed to the wilderness, That sniffs the wind in her passion. In [the time of] her heat who can turn her away? All who seek her will not become weary; In her month they will find her.
"Keep your feet from being unshod And your throat from thirst; But you said, 'It is hopeless! No! For I have loved strangers, And after them I will walk.'
"As the thief is shamed when he is discovered, So the house of Israel is shamed; They, their kings, their princes, And their priests, and their prophets,
Who say to a tree,' You are my father,' And to a stone,' You gave me birth.' For they have turned [their] back to Me, And not [their] face; But in the time of their trouble they will say,' Arise and save us.'
"But where are your gods Which you made for yourself? Let them arise, if they can save you In the time of your trouble; For [according to] the number of your cities Are your gods, O Judah.
"Why do you contend with Me? You have all transgressed against Me," declares the Lord.
"In vain I have struck your sons; They accepted no chastening. Your sword has devoured your prophets Like a destroying lion.
"O generation, heed the word of the Lord. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, Or a land of thick darkness? Why do My people say, 'We [are free to] roam; We will come no more to Thee'?
"Can a virgin forget her ornaments, Or a bride her attire? Yet My people have forgotten Me Days without number.
"How well you prepare your way To seek love! Therefore even the wicked women You have taught your ways.
"Also on your skirts is found The lifeblood of the innocent poor; You did not find them breaking in. But in spite of all these things,
Yet you said,' I am innocent; Surely His anger is turned away from me.' Behold, I will enter into judgment with you Because you say,' I have not sinned.'
"Why do you go around so much Changing your way? Also, you shall be put to shame by Egypt As you were put to shame by Assyria.
"From this [place] also you shall go out With your hands on your head; For the Lord has rejected those in whom you trust, And you shall not prosper with them."
