"At that time," declares the Lord, "I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be My people."
Thus says the Lord, "The people who survived the sword Found grace in the wilderness-- Israel, when it went to find its rest."
The Lord appeared to him from afar, [saying,] "I have loved you with an everlasting love; Therefore I have drawn you with lovingkindness.
"Again I will build you, and you shall be rebuilt, O virgin of Israel! Again you shall take up your tambourines, And go forth to the dances of the merrymakers.
"Again you shall plant vineyards On the hills of Samaria; The planters shall plant And shall enjoy [them.]
"For there shall be a day when watchmen On the hills of Ephraim shall call out, 'Arise, and let us go up [to] Zion, To the Lord our God.'"
For thus says the Lord, "Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, And shout among the chiefs of the nations; Proclaim, give praise, and say, 'O Lord, save Thy people, The remnant of Israel.'
"Behold, I am bringing them from the north country, And I will gather them from the remote parts of the earth, Among them the blind and the lame, The woman with child and she who is in labor with child, together; A great company, they shall return here.
"With weeping they shall come, And by supplication I will lead them; I will make them walk by streams of waters, On a straight path in which they shall not stumble; For I am a father to Israel, And Ephraim is My first-born."
Hear the word of the Lord, O nations, And declare in the coastlands afar off, And say, "He who scattered Israel will gather him, And keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock."
For the Lord has ransomed Jacob, And redeemed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he.
"And they shall come and shout for joy on the height of Zion, And they shall be radiant over the bounty of the Lord-- Over the grain, and the new wine, and the oil, And over the young of the flock and the herd; And their life shall be like a watered garden, And they shall never languish again.
"Then the virgin shall rejoice in the dance, And the young men and the old, together, For I will turn their mourning into joy, And will comfort them, and give them joy for their sorrow.
"And I will fill the soul of the priests with abundance, And My people shall be satisfied with My goodness," declares the Lord.
Thus says the Lord, "A voice is heard in Ramah, Lamentation [and] bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; She refuses to be comforted for her children, Because they are no more."
Thus says the Lord, "Restrain your voice from weeping, And your eyes from tears; For your work shall be rewarded," declares the Lord, "And they shall return from the land of the enemy.
"And there is hope for your future," declares the Lord, "And [your] children shall return to their own territory.
"I have surely heard Ephraim grieving, 'Thou hast chastised me, and I was chastised, Like an untrained calf; Bring me back that I may be restored, For Thou art the Lord my God.
'For after I turned back, I repented; And after I was instructed, I smote on [my] thigh; I was ashamed, and also humiliated, Because I bore the reproach of my youth.'
"Is Ephraim My dear son? Is he a delightful child? Indeed, as often as I have spoken against him, I certainly [still] remember him; Therefore My heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him," declares the Lord.
"Set up for yourself roadmarks, Place for yourself guideposts; Direct your mind to the highway, The way by which you went. Return, O virgin of Israel, Return to these your cities.
"How long will you go here and there, O faithless daughter? For the Lord has created a new thing in the earth-- A woman will encompass a man."
Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, "Once again they will speak this word in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I restore their fortunes, 'The Lord bless you, O abode of righteousness, O holy hill!'
"And Judah and all its cities will dwell together in it, the farmer and they who go about with flocks.
"For I satisfy the weary ones and refresh everyone who languishes."
At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me.
"Behold, days are coming," declares the Lord, "when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and with the seed of beast.
"And it will come about that as I have watched over them to pluck up, to break down, to overthrow, to destroy, and to bring disaster, so I will watch over them to build and to plant," declares the Lord.
"In those days they will not say again, 'The fathers have eaten sour grapes, And the children's teeth are set on edge.'
"But everyone will die for his own iniquity; each man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth will be set on edge.
"Behold, days are coming," declares the Lord, "when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them, "declares the Lord.
"But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days," declares the Lord, "I will put My law within them, and on their heart I will write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people.
"And they shall not teach again, each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for they shall all know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them," declares the Lord, "for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more."
Thus says the Lord, Who gives the sun for light by day, And the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar; The Lord of hosts is His name:
"If this fixed order departs From before Me," declares the Lord, "Then the offspring of Israel also shall cease From being a nation before Me forever."
Thus says the Lord, "If the heavens above can be measured, And the foundations of the earth searched out below, Then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel For all that they have done," declares the Lord.
"Behold, days are coming," declares the Lord, "when the city shall be rebuilt for the Lord from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate.
"And the measuring line shall go out farther straight ahead to the hill Gareb; then it will turn to Goah.
"And the whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, shall be holy to the Lord; it shall not be plucked up, or overthrown anymore forever."
