The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying,
"Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, 'Write all the words which I have spoken to you in a book.
'For, behold, days are coming,' declares the Lord,' when I will restore the fortunes of My people Israel and Judah.' The Lord says,' I will also bring them back to the land that I gave to their forefathers, and they shall possess it.' "
Now these are the words which the Lord spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah,
"For thus says the Lord, 'I have heard a sound of terror, Of dread, and there is no peace.
'Ask now, and see, If a male can give birth. Why do I see every man [With] his hands on his loins, as a woman in childbirth? And [why] have all faces turned pale?
'Alas! for that day is great, There is none like it; And it is the time of Jacob's distress, But he will be saved from it.
'And it shall come about on that day,' declares the Lord of hosts, 'that I will break his yoke from off their neck, and will tear off their bonds; and strangers shall no longer make them their slaves.
'But they shall serve the Lord their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
'And fear not, O Jacob My servant,' declares the Lord,' And do not be dismayed, O Israel; For behold, I will save you from afar, And your offspring from the land of their captivity. And Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, And no one shall make him afraid.
'For I am with you,' declares the Lord,' to save you; For I will destroy completely all the nations where I have scattered you, Only I will not destroy you completely. But I will chasten you justly, And will by no means leave you unpunished.'
"For thus says the Lord, 'Your wound is incurable, And your injury is serious.
'There is no one to plead your cause; [No] healing for [your] sore, No recovery for you.
'All your lovers haveforgotten you, They do not seek you; For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, With the punishment of a cruel one, Because your iniquity is great And your sins are numerous.
'Why do you cry out over your injury? Your pain is incurable. Because your iniquity is great And your sins are numerous, I have done these things to you.
'Therefore all who devour you shall be devoured; And all your adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; And those who plunder you shall be for plunder, And all who prey upon you I will give for prey.
'For I will restore you to health And I will heal you of your wounds,' declares the Lord,' Because they have called you an outcast, saying: "It is Zion; no one cares for her."'
"Thus says the Lord, 'Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob And have compassion on his dwelling places; And the city shall be rebuilt on its ruin, And the palace shall stand on its rightful place.
'And from them shall proceed thanksgiving And the voice of those who make merry; And I will multiply them, and they shall not be diminished; I will also honor them, and they shall not be insignificant.
'Their children also shall be as formerly, And their congregation shall be established before Me; And I will punish all their oppressors.
'And their leader shall be one of them, And their ruler shall come forth from their midst; And I will bring him near, and he shall approach Me; For who would dare to risk his life to approach Me?' declares the Lord.
'And you shall be My people, And I will be your God.' "
Behold, the tempest of the Lord! Wrath has gone forth, A sweeping tempest; It will burst on the head of the wicked.
The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back, Until He has performed, and until He has accomplished The intent of His heart; In the latter days you will understand this.
