The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying,
"Arise and go down to the potter's house, and there I shall announce My words to you."
Then I went down to the potter's house, and there he was, making something on the wheel.
But the vessel that he was making of clay was spoiled in the hand of the potter; so he remade it into another vessel, as it pleased the potter to make.
Then the word of the Lord came to me saying,
"Can I not, O house of Israel, deal with you as this potter [does]?" declares the Lord. "Behold, like the clay in the potter's hand, so are you in My hand, O house of Israel.
"At one moment I might speak concerning a nation or concerning a kingdom to uproot, to pull down, or to destroy [it;]
if that nation against which I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent concerning the calamity I planned to bring on it.
"Or at another moment I might speak concerning a nation or concerning a kingdom to build up or to plant [it;]
if it does evil in My sight by not obeying My voice, then I will think better of the good with which I had promised to bless it.
"So now then, speak to the men of Judah and against the inhabitants of Jerusalem saying, 'Thus says the Lord," Behold, I am fashioning calamity against you and devising a plan against you. Oh turn back, each of you from his evil way, and reform your ways and your deeds. "'
"But they will say, 'It's hopeless! For we are going to follow our own plans, and each of us will act according to the stubbornness of his evil heart.'
"Therefore thus says the Lord, 'Ask now among the nations, Who ever heard the like of this? The virgin of Israel Has done a most appalling thing.
'Does the snow of Lebanon forsake the rock of the open country? Or is the cold flowing water [from] a foreign [land] ever snatched away?
'For My people have forgotten Me, They burn incense to worthless gods And they have stumbled from their ways, From the ancient paths, To walk in bypaths, Not on a highway,
To make their land a desolation, [An object of] perpetual hissing; Everyone who passes by it will be astonished And shake his head.
'Like an east wind I will scatter them Before the enemy; I will show them My back and not [My] face In the day of their calamity.' "
Then they said, "Come and let us devise plans against Jeremiah. Surely the law is not going to be lost to the priest, nor counsel to the sage, nor the [divine] word to the prophet! Come on and let us strike at him with [our] tongue, and let us give no heed to any of his words."
Do give heed to me, O Lord, And listen to what my opponents are saying!
Should good be repaid with evil? For they have dug a pit for me. Remember how I stood before Thee To speak good on their behalf, So as to turn away Thy wrath from them.
Therefore, give their children over to famine, And deliver them up to the power of the sword; And let their wives become childless and widowed. Let their men also be smitten to death, Their young men struck down by the sword in battle.
May an outcry be heard from their houses, When Thou suddenly bringest raiders upon them; For they have dug a pit to capture me And hidden snares for my feet.
Yet Thou, O Lord, knowest All their deadly designs against me; Do not forgive their iniquity Or blot out their sin from Thy sight. But may they be overthrown before Thee; Deal with them in the time of Thine anger!
