Then the Lord said to me, "Even though Moses and Samuel were to stand before Me, My heart would not be with this people; send them away from My presence and let them go!
"And it shall be that when they say to you, 'Where should we go?' then you are to tell them, 'Thus says the Lord: "Those [destined] for death, to death; And those [destined] for the sword, to the sword; And those [destined] for famine, to famine; And those [destined] for captivity, to captivity. "'
"And I shall appoint over them four kinds [of doom,]" declares the Lord: "the sword to slay, the dogs to drag off, and the birds of the sky and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy.
"And I shall make them an object of horror among all the kingdoms of the earth because of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, for what he did in Jerusalem.
"Indeed, who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem, Or who will mourn for you, Or who will turn aside to ask about your welfare?
"You who have forsaken Me," declares the Lord, "You keep going backward. So I will stretch out My hand against you and destroy you; I am tired of relenting!
"And I will winnow them with a winnowing fork At the gates of the land; I will bereave [them] of children, I will destroy My people; They did not repent of their ways.
"Their widows will be more numerous before Me Than the sand of the seas; I will bring against them, against the mother of a young man, A destroyer at noonday; I will suddenly bring down on her Anguish and dismay.
"She who bore seven [sons] pines away; Her breathing is labored. Her sun has set while it was yet day; She has been shamed and humiliated. So I shall give over their survivors to the sword Before their enemies," declares the Lord.
Woe to me, my mother, that you have borne me As a man of strife and a man of contention to all the land! I have neither lent, nor have men lent money to me, [Yet] everyone curses me.
The Lord said, "Surely I will set you free for [purposes of] good; Surely I will cause the enemy to make supplication to you In a time of disaster and a time of distress.
"Can anyone smash iron, Iron from the north, or bronze?
"Your wealth and your treasures I will give for booty without cost, Even for all your sins And within all your borders.
"Then I will cause your enemies to bring [it] Into a land you do not know; For a fire has been kindled in My anger, It will burn upon you."
Thou who knowest, O Lord, Remember me, take notice of me, And take vengeance for me on my persecutors. Do [not,] in view of Thy patience, take me away; Know that for Thy sake I endure reproach.
Thy words were found and I ate them, And Thy words became for me a joy and the delight of my heart; For I have been called by Thy name, O Lord God of hosts.
I did not sit in the circle of merrymakers, Nor did I exult. Because of Thy hand [upon me] I sat alone, For Thou didst fill me with indignation.
Why has my pain been perpetual And my wound incurable, refusing to be healed? Wilt Thou indeed be to me like a deceptive [stream] With water that is unreliable?
Therefore, thus says the Lord, "If you return, then I will restore you-- Before Me you will stand; And if you extract the precious from the worthless, You will become My spokesman. They for their part may turn to you, But as for you, you must not turn to them.
"Then I will make you to this people A fortified wall of bronze; And though they fight against you, They will not prevail over you; For I am with you to save you And deliver you," declares the Lord.
"So I will deliver you from the hand of the wicked, And I will redeem you from the grasp of the violent."
