Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was still confined in the court of the guard, saying,
"Thus says the Lord who made [the earth,] the Lord who formed it to establish it, the Lord is His name,
'Call to Me, and I will answer you, and I will tell you great and mighty things, which you do not know.'
"For thus says the Lord God of Israel concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are broken down [to make a defense] against the siege mounds and against the sword,
'While [they] are coming to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the corpses of men whom I have slain in My anger and in My wrath, and I have hidden My face from this city because of all their wickedness:
'Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them; and I will reveal to them an abundance of peace and truth.
'And I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel, and I will rebuild them as they were at first.
'And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity by which they have sinned against Me, and I will pardon all their iniquities by which they have sinned against Me, and by which they have transgressed against Me.
'And it shall be to Me a name of joy, praise, and glory before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear of all the good that I do for them, and they shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the peace that I make for it.'
"Thus says the Lord, 'Yet again there shall be heard in this place, of which you say," It is a waste, without man and without beast, "[that is,] in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and without beast,
the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who say, "Give thanks to the Lord of hosts, For the Lord is good, For His lovingkindness is everlasting"; [and of those] who bring a thank offering into the house of the Lord. For I will restore the fortunes of the land as they were at first, 'says the Lord.
"Thus says the Lord of hosts, 'There shall again be in this place which is waste, without man or beast, and in all its cities, a habitation of shepherds who rest their flocks.
'In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the lowland, in the cities of the Negev, in the land of Benjamin, in the environs of Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks shall again pass under the hands of the one who numbers them,' says the Lord.
' Behold, days are coming,' declares the Lord,' when I will fulfill the good word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and the house of Judah.
'In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous Branch of David to spring forth; and He shall execute justice and righteousness on the earth.
'In those days Judah shall be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell in safety; and this is [the name] by which she shall be called: the Lord is our righteousness.'
"For thus says the Lord, 'David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel;
and the Levitical priests shall never lack a man before Me to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to prepare sacrifices continually.' "
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying,
"Thus says the Lord, 'If you can break My covenant for the day, and My covenant for the night, so that day and night will not be at their appointed time,
then My covenant may also be broken with David My servant that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and with the Levitical priests, My ministers.
'As the host of heaven cannot be counted, and the sand of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the descendants of David My servant and the Levites who minister to Me.' "
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying,
"Have you not observed what this people have spoken, saying, 'The two families which the Lord chose, He has rejected them'? Thus they despise My people, no longer are they as a nation in their sight.
"Thus says the Lord, 'If My covenant [for] day and night [stand] not, [and] the fixed patterns of heaven and earth I have not established,
then I would reject the descendants of Jacob and David My servant, not taking from his descendants rulers over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them.' "
