And when King Hezekiah heard [it,] he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth and entered the house of the Lord.
Then he sent Eliakim who was over the household with Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
And they said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah, 'This day is a day of distress, rebuke, and rejection; for children have come to birth, and there is no strength to [deliver.]
'Perhaps the Lord your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, offer a prayer for the remnant that is left.' "
So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
And Isaiah said to them, "Thus you shall say to your master, 'Thus says the Lord," Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me.
"Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land. And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land." '"
Then Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish.
When he heard [them] say concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, "Behold, he has come out to fight against you," he sent messengers again to Hezekiah saying,
"Thus you shall say to Hezekiah king of Judah, 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you saying," Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. "
'Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, destroying them completely. So will you be spared?
'Did the gods of those nations which my fathers destroyed deliver them, [even] Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the sons of Eden who [were] in Telassar?
'Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and [of] Hena and Ivvah?' "
Then Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went up to the house of the Lord and spread it out before the Lord.
And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, "O Lord, the God of Israel, who art enthroned [above] the cherubim, Thou art the God, Thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth.
"Incline Thine ear, O Lord, and hear; open Thine eyes, O Lord, and see; and listen to the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to reproach the living God.
"Truly, O Lord, the kings of Assyria have devastated the nations and their lands
and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. So they have destroyed them.
"And now, O Lord our God, I pray, deliver us from his hand that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that Thou alone, O Lord, art God."
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah saying, "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, 'Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard [you.]'
"This is the word that the Lord has spoken against him: 'She has despised you and mocked you, The virgin daughter of Zion; She has shaken [her] head behind you, The daughter of Jerusalem!
'Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? And against whom have you raised [your] voice, And haughtily lifted up your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel!
'Through your messengers you have reproached the Lord, And you have said, "With my many chariots I came up to the heights of the mountains, To the remotest parts of Lebanon; And I cut down its tall cedars [and] its choice cypresses. And I entered its farthest lodging place, its thickest forest.
"I dug [wells] and drank foreign waters, And with the sole of my feet I dried up All the rivers of Egypt."
' Have you not heard? Long ago I did it; From ancient times I planned it. Now I have brought it to pass, That you should turn fortified cities into ruinous heaps.
'Therefore their inhabitants were short of strength, They were dismayed and put to shame; They were as the vegetation of the field and as the green herb, As grass on the housetops is scorched before it is grown up.
'But I know your sitting down, And your going out and your coming in, And your raging against Me.
'Because of your raging against Me, And because your arrogance has come up to My ears, Therefore I will put My hook in your nose, And My bridle in your lips, And I will turn you back by the way which you came.
' Then this shall be the sign for you: you shall eat this year what grows of itself, in the second year what springs from the same, and in the third year sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
'And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
'For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of Mount Zion survivors. The zeal of the Lord shall perform this.
'Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, "He shall not come to this city or shoot an arrow there; neither shall he come before it with a shield, nor throw up a mound against it.
"By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come to this city,"' declares the Lord.
'For I will defend this city to save it for My own sake and for My servant David's sake.' "
Then it happened that night that the angel of the Lord went out, and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians; and when men rose early in the morning, behold, all of them were dead.
So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned [home,] and lived at Nineveh.
And it came about as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer killed him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son became king in his place.
