How lonely sits the city That was full of people! She has become like a widow Who was [once] great among the nations! She who was a princess among the provinces Has become a forced laborer!
She weeps bitterly in the night, And her tears are on her cheeks; She has none to comfort her Among all her lovers. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her; They have become her enemies.
Judah has gone into exile under affliction, And under harsh servitude; She dwells among the nations, [But] she has found no rest; All her pursuers have overtaken her In the midst of distress.
The roads of Zion are in mourning Because no one comes to the appointed feasts. All her gates are desolate; Her priests are groaning, Her virgins are afflicted, And she herself is bitter.
Her adversaries have become her masters, Her enemies prosper; For the Lord has caused her grief Because of the multitude of her transgressions; Her little ones have gone away As captives before the adversary.
And all her majesty Has departed from the daughter of Zion; Her princes have become like bucks That have found no pasture; And they have fled without strength Before the pursuer.
In the days of her affliction and homelessness Jerusalem remembers all her precious things That were from the days of old When her people fell into the hand of the adversary, And no one helped her. The adversaries saw her, They mocked at her ruin.
Jerusalem sinned greatly, Therefore she has become an unclean thing. All who honored her despise her Because they have seen her nakedness; Even she herself groans and turns away.
Her uncleanness was in her skirts; She did not consider her future; Therefore she has fallen astonishingly; She has no comforter. "See, O Lord, my affliction, For the enemy has magnified himself!"
The adversary has stretched out his hand Over all her precious things, For she has seen the nations enter her sanctuary, The ones whom Thou didst command That they should not enter into Thy congregation.
All her people groan seeking bread; They have given their precious things for food To restore their lives themselves. "See, O Lord, and look, For I am despised."
"Is it nothing to all you who pass this way? Look and see if there is any pain like my pain Which was severely dealt out to me, Which the Lord inflicted on the day of His fierce anger.
"From on high He sent fire into my bones, And it prevailed [over them;] He has spread a net for my feet; He has turned me back; He has made me desolate, Faint all day long.
"The yoke of my transgressions is bound; By His hand they are knit together; They have come upon my neck; He has made my strength fail; The Lord has given me into the hands Of [those against whom] I am not able to stand.
"The Lord has rejected all my strong men In my midst; He has called an appointed time against me To crush my young men; The Lord has trodden [as in] a wine press The virgin daughter of Judah.
"For these things I weep; My eyes run down with water; Because far from me is a comforter, One who restores my soul; My children are desolate Because the enemy has prevailed."
Zion stretches out her hands; There is no one to comfort her; The Lord has commanded concerning Jacob That the ones round about him should be his adversaries; Jerusalem has become an unclean thing among them.
"The Lord is righteous; For I have rebelled against His command; Hear now, all peoples, And behold my pain; My virgins and my young men Have gone into captivity.
"I called to my lovers, [but] they deceived me; My priests and my elders perished in the city, While they sought food to restore their strength themselves.
"See, O Lord, for I am in distress; My spirit is greatly troubled; My heart is overturned within me, For I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword slays; In the house it is like death.
"They have heard that I groan; There is no one to comfort me; All my enemies have heard of my calamity; They are glad that Thou hast done [it.] Oh, that Thou wouldst bring the day which Thou hast proclaimed, That they may become like me.
"Let all their wickedness come before Thee; And deal with them as Thou hast dealt with me For all my transgressions; For my groans are many, and my heart is faint."
