Then Hannah prayed and said, "My heart exults in the Lord; My horn is exalted in the Lord, My mouth speaks boldly against my enemies, Because I rejoice in Thy salvation.
"There is no one holy like the Lord, Indeed, there is no one besides Thee, Nor is there any rock like our God.
"Boast no more so very proudly, Do not let arrogance come out of your mouth; For the Lord is a God of knowledge, And with Him actions are weighed.
"The bows of the mighty are shattered, But the feeble gird on strength.
"Those who were full hire themselves out for bread, But those who were hungry cease [to hunger.] Even the barren gives birth to seven, But she who has many children languishes.
"The Lord kills and makes alive; He brings down to Sheol and raises up.
"The Lord makes poor and rich; He brings low, He also exalts.
"He raises the poor from the dust, He lifts the needy from the ash heap To make them sit with nobles, And inherit a seat of honor; For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, And He set the world on them.
"He keeps the feet of His godly ones, But the wicked ones are silenced in darkness; For not by might shall a man prevail.
"Those who contend with the Lord will be shattered; Against them He will thunder in the heavens, The Lord will judge the ends of the earth; And He will give strength to His king, And will exalt the horn of His anointed."
Then Elkanah went to his home at Ramah. But the boy ministered to the Lord before Eli the priest.
Now the sons of Eli were worthless men; they did not know the Lord
and the custom of the priests with the people. When any man was offering a sacrifice, the priest's servant would come while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand.
Then he would thrust it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself. Thus they did in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there.
Also, before they burned the fat, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, "Give the priest meat for roasting, as he will not take boiled meat from you, only raw."
And if the man said to him, "They must surely burn the fat first, and then take as much as you desire," then he would say, "No, but you shall give [it to me] now; and if not, I will take it by force."
Thus the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for the men despised the offering of the Lord.
Now Samuel was ministering before the Lord, [as] a boy wearing a linen ephod.
And his mother would make him a little robe and bring it to him from year to year when she would come up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, "May the Lord give you children from this woman in place of the one she dedicated to the Lord." And they went to their own home.
And the Lord visited Hannah; and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel grew before the Lord.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who served at the doorway of the tent of meeting.
And he said to them, "Why do you do such things, the evil things that I hear from all these people?
"No, my sons; for the report is not good which I hear the Lord's people circulating.
"If one man sins against another, God will mediate for him; but if a man sins against the Lord, who can intercede for him?" But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for the Lord desired to put them to death.
Now the boy Samuel was growing in stature and in favor both with the Lord and with men.
Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, "Thus says the Lord, 'Did I [not] indeed reveal Myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt [in bondage] to Pharaoh's house?
'And did I [not] choose them from all the tribes of Israel to be My priests, to go up to My altar, to burn incense, to carry an ephod before Me; and did I [not] give to the house of your father all the fire [offerings] of the sons of Israel?
'Why do you kick at My sacrifice and at My offering which I have commanded [in My] dwelling, and honor your sons above Me, by making yourselves fat with the choicest of every offering of My people Israel?'
"Therefore the Lord God of Israel declares, 'I did indeed say that your house and the house of your father should walk before Me forever'; but now the Lord declares, 'Far be it from Me-- for those who honor Me I will honor, and those who despise Me will be lightly esteemed.
'Behold, the days are coming when I will break your strength and the strength of your father's house so that there will not be an old man in your house.
'And you will see the distress of [My] dwelling, in [spite of] all that I do good for Israel; and an old man will not be in your house forever.
'Yet I will not cut off every man of yours from My altar that your eyes may fail [from weeping] and your soul grieve, and all the increase of your house will die in the prime of life.
'And this will be the sign to you which shall come concerning your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas: on the same day both of them shall die.
'But I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest who will do according to what is in My heart and in My soul; and I will build him an enduring house, and he will walk before My anointed always.
'And it shall come about that everyone who is left in your house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread, and say, "Please assign me to one of the priest's offices so that I may eat a piece of bread."' "
