And I heard a loud voice from the temple, saying to the seven angels, "Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God into the earth."
And the first [angel] went and poured out his bowl into the earth; and it became a loathsome and malignant sore upon the men who had the mark of the beast and who worshiped his image.
And the second [angel] poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like [that] of a dead man; and every living thing in the sea died.
And the third [angel] poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters saying, "Righteous art Thou, who art and who wast, O Holy One, because Thou didst judge these things;
for they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and Thou hast given them blood to drink. They deserve it. "
And I heard the altar saying, "Yes, O Lord God, the Almighty, true and righteous are Thy judgments."
And the fourth [angel] poured out his bowl upon the sun; and it was given to it to scorch men with fire.
And men were scorched with fierce heat; and they blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues; and they did not repent, so as to give Him glory.
And the fifth [angel] poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues because of pain,
and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores; and they did not repent of their deeds.
And the sixth [angel] poured out his bowl upon the great river, the Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way might be prepared for the kings from the east.
And I saw [coming] out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs;
for they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together for the war of the great day of God, the Almighty.
("Behold, I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps his garments, lest he walk about naked and men see his shame.")
And they gathered them together to the place which in Hebrew is called Har-Magedon.
And the seventh [angel] poured out his bowl upon the air; and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, "It is done."
And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder; and there was a great earthquake, such as there had not been since man came to be upon the earth, so great an earthquake [was it, and] so mighty.
And the great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the great was remembered before God, to give her the cup of the wine of His fierce wrath.
And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
And huge hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, *came down from heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, because its plague *was extremely severe.
