"Now Bezalel and Oholiab, and every skillful person in whom the Lord has put skill and understanding to know how to perform all the work in the construction of the sanctuary, shall perform in accordance with all that the Lord has commanded."
Then Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every skillful person in whom the Lord had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him, to come to the work to perform it.
And they received from Moses all the contributions which the sons of Israel had brought to perform the work in the construction of the sanctuary. And they still [continued] bringing to him freewill offerings every morning.
And all the skillful men who were performing all the work of the sanctuary came, each from the work which he was performing,
and they said to Moses, "The people are bringing much more than enough for the construction work which the Lord commanded [us] to perform."
So Moses issued a command, and a proclamation was circulated throughout the camp, saying, "Let neither man nor woman any longer perform work for the contributions of the sanctuary." Thus the people were restrained from bringing [any more.]
For the material they had was sufficient and more than enough for all the work, to perform it.
And all the skillful men among those who were performing the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet [material,] with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman, Bezalel made them.
The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains had the same measurements.
And he joined five curtains to one another, and [the other] five curtains he joined to one another.
And he made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain in the first set; he did likewise on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the second set.
He made fifty loops in the one curtain and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite each other.
And he made fifty clasps of gold, and joined the curtains to one another with the clasps, so the tabernacle was a unit.
Then he made curtains of goats' [hair] for a tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains in all.
The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits the width of each curtain; the eleven curtains had the same measurements.
And he joined five curtains by themselves, and [the other] six curtains by themselves.
Moreover, he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the [first] set, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain [that was outermost in] the second set.
And he made fifty clasps of bronze to join the tent together, that it might be a unit.
And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of porpoise skins above.
Then he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing upright.
Ten cubits was the length of each board, and one and a half cubits the width of each board.
There were two tenons for each board, fitted to one another; thus he did for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side;
and he made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
Then for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty boards,
and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board.
And for the rear of the tabernacle, to the west, he made six boards.
And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the rear.
And they were double beneath, and together they were complete to its top to the first ring; thus he did with both of them for the two corners.
And there were eight boards with their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two under every board.
Then he made bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle,
and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the rear [side] to the west.
And he made the middle bar to pass through in the center of the boards from end to end.
And he overlaid the boards with gold and made their rings of gold [as] holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
Moreover, he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet [material,] and fine twisted linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
And he made four pillars of acacia for it, and overlaid them with gold, with their hooks of gold; and he cast four sockets of silver for them.
And he made a screen for the doorway of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet [material,] and fine twisted linen, the work of a weaver;
and [he made] its five pillars with their hooks, and he overlaid their tops and their bands with gold; but their five sockets were of bronze.
