Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
"See, I have called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
"And I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all [kinds of] craftsmanship,
to make artistic designs for work in gold, in silver, and in bronze,
and in the cutting of stones for settings, and in the carving of wood, that he may work in all [kinds of] craftsmanship.
"And behold, I Myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the hearts of all who are skillful I have put skill, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
the tent of meeting, and the ark of testimony, and the mercy seat upon it, and all the furniture of the tent,
the table also and its utensils, and the pure [gold] lampstand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense,
the altar of burnt offering also with all its utensils, and the laver and its stand,
the woven garments as well, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, [with which] to carry on their priesthood;
the anointing oil also, and the fragrant incense for the holy place, they are to make [them] according to all that I have commanded you. "
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
"But as for you, speak to the sons of Israel, saying, 'You shall surely observe My sabbaths; for [this] is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you.
'Therefore you are to observe the sabbath, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work on it, that person shall be cut off from among his people.
'For six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there is a sabbath of complete rest, holy to the Lord; whoever does any work on the sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
'So the sons of Israel shall observe the sabbath, to celebrate the sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.'
"It is a sign between Me and the sons of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, but on the seventh day He ceased [from labor,] and was refreshed."
And when He had finished speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, He gave Moses the two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone, written by the finger of God.
