Then the Lord said to Moses, "Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for under compulsion he shall let them go, and under compulsion he shall drive them out of his land."
God spoke further to Moses and said to him, "I am the Lord;
and I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, as God Almighty, but [by] My name, Lord, I did not make Myself known to them.
"And I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they sojourned.
"And furthermore I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, because the Egyptians are holding them in bondage; and I have remembered My covenant.
"Say, therefore, to the sons of Israel, 'I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments.
'Then I will take you for My people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
'And I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and I will give it to you [for] a possession; I am the Lord.' "
So Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses on account of [their] despondency and cruel bondage.
Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
"Go, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to let the sons of Israel go out of his land."
But Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, "Behold, the sons of Israel have not listened to me; how then will Pharaoh listen to me, for I am unskilled in speech?"
Then the Lord spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a charge to the sons of Israel and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These are the heads of their fathers' households. The sons of Reuben, Israel's first-born: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon.
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari; and the length of Levi's life was one hundred and thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel; and the length of Kohath's life was one hundred and thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
And Amram married his father's sister Jochebed, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; and the length of Amram's life was one hundred and thirty-seven years.
And the sons of Izhar: Korah and Nepheg and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael and Elzaphan and Sithri.
And Aaron married Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah: Assir and Elkanah and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
And Aaron's son Eleazar married one of the daughters of Putiel, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' [households] of the Levites according to their families.
It was [the same] Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, "Bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their hosts."
They were the ones who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt about bringing out the sons of Israel from Egypt; it was [the same] Moses and Aaron.
Now it came about on the day when the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
that the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, "I am the Lord; speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I speak to you."
But Moses said before the Lord, "Behold, I am unskilled in speech; how then will Pharaoh listen to me?"
