Now as to the times and the epochs, brethren, you have no need of anything to be written to you.
For you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come just like a thief in the night.
While they are saying, "Peace and safety!" then destruction will come upon them suddenly like birth pangs upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
But you, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you like a thief;
for you are all sons of light and sons of day. We are not of night nor of darkness;
so then let us not sleep as others do, but let us be alert and sober.
For those who sleep do their sleeping at night, and those who get drunk get drunk at night.
But since we are of [the] day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation.
For God has not destined us for wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, that whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with Him.
Therefore encourage one another, and build up one another, just as you also are doing.
But we request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you, and have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction,
and that you esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Live in peace with one another.
And we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with all men.
See that no one repays another with evil for evil, but always seek after that which is good for one another and for all men.
Rejoice always;
pray without ceasing;
in everything give thanks; for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit;
do not despise prophetic utterances.
But examine everything [carefully]; hold fast to that which is good;
abstain from every form of evil.
Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you entirely; and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is He who calls you, and He also will bring it to pass.
Brethren, pray for us.
Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
