"Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded [me] to teach you, that you might do [them] in the land where you are going over to possess it,
so that you and your son and your grandson might fear the Lord your God, to keep all His statutes and His commandments, which I command you, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged.
"O Israel, you should listen and be careful to do [it], that it may be well with you and that you may multiply greatly, just as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you, [in] a land flowing with milk and honey.
"Hear, O Israel! The Lord is our God, the Lord is one!
"And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.
"And these words, which I am commanding you today, shall be on your heart;
and you shall teach them diligently to your sons and shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way and when you lie down and when you rise up.
"And you shall bind them as a sign on your hand and they shall be as frontals on your forehead.
"And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
"Then it shall come about when the Lord your God brings you into the land which He swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, to give you, great and splendid cities which you did not build,
and houses full of all good things which you did not fill, and hewn cisterns which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant, and you shall eat and be satisfied,
then watch yourself, lest you forget the Lord who brought you from the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
"You shall fear [only] the Lord your God; and you shall worship Him, and swear by His name.
"You shall not follow other gods, any of the gods of the peoples who surround you,
for the Lord your God in the midst of you is a jealous God; otherwise the anger of the Lord your God will be kindled against you, and He will wipe you off the face of the earth.
"You shall not put the Lord your God to the test, as you tested [Him] at Massah.
"You should diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God, and His testimonies and His statutes which He has commanded you.
"And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that it may be well with you and that you may go in and possess the good land which the Lord swore to [give] your fathers,
by driving out all your enemies from before you, as the Lord has spoken.
"When your son asks you in time to come, saying, 'What [do] the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments [mean] which the Lord our God commanded you?'
then you shall say to your son,' We were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt; and the Lord brought us from Egypt with a mighty hand.
'Moreover, the Lord showed great and distressing signs and wonders before our eyes against Egypt, Pharaoh and all his household;
and He brought us out from there in order to bring us in, to give us the land which He had sworn to our fathers.'
"So the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God for our good always and for our survival, as [it is] today.
"And it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to observe all this commandment before the Lord our God, just as He commanded us.
