Now this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death.
And he said, "The Lord came from Sinai, And dawned on them from Seir; He shone forth from Mount Paran, And He came from the midst of ten thousand holy ones; At His right hand there was flashing lightning for them.
"Indeed, He loves the people; All Thy holy ones are in Thy hand, And they followed in Thy steps; [Everyone] receives of Thy words.
"Moses charged us with a law, A possession for the assembly of Jacob.
"And He was king in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, The tribes of Israel together.
"May Reuben live and not die, Nor his men be few."
And this regarding Judah; so he said, "Hear, O Lord, the voice of Judah, And bring him to his people. With his hands he contended for them; And mayest Thou be a help against his adversaries."
And of Levi he said, "[Let] Thy Thummim and Thy Urim [belong] to Thy godly man, Whom Thou didst prove at Massah, With whom Thou didst contend at the waters of Meribah;
Who said of his father and his mother,' I did not consider them'; And he did not acknowledge his brothers, Nor did he regard his own sons, For they observed Thy word, And kept Thy covenant.
"They shall teach Thine ordinances to Jacob, And Thy law to Israel. They shall put incense before Thee, And whole burnt offerings on Thine altar.
"O Lord, bless his substance, And accept the work of his hands; Shatter the loins of those who rise up against him, And those who hate him, so that they may not rise [again.]"
Of Benjamin he said, "May the beloved of the Lord dwell in security by Him, Who shields him all the day, And he dwells between His shoulders."
And of Joseph he said, "Blessed of the Lord [be] his land, With the choice things of heaven, with the dew, And from the deep lying beneath,
And with the choice yield of the sun, And with the choice produce of the months.
"And with the best things of the ancient mountains, And with the choice things of the everlasting hills,
And with the choice things of the earth and its fulness, And the favor of Him who dwelt in the bush. Let it come to the head of Joseph, And to the crown of the head of the one distinguished among his brothers.
"As the first-born of his ox, majesty is his, And his horns are the horns of the wild ox; With them he shall push the peoples, All at once, [to] the ends of the earth. And those are the ten thousands of Ephraim, And those are the thousands of Manasseh."
And of Zebulun he said, "Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going forth, And, Issachar, in your tents.
"They shall call peoples [to] the mountain; There they shall offer righteous sacrifices; For they shall draw out the abundance of the seas, And the hidden treasures of the sand."
And of Gad he said, "Blessed is the one who enlarges Gad; He lies down as a lion, And tears the arm, also the crown of the head.
"Then he provided the first [part] for himself, For there the ruler's portion was reserved; And he came [with] the leaders of the people; He executed the justice of the Lord, And His ordinances with Israel."
And of Dan he said, "Dan is a lion's whelp, That leaps forth from Bashan."
And of Naphtali he said, "O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, And full of the blessing of the Lord, Take possession of the sea and the south."
And of Asher he said, "More blessed than sons is Asher; May he be favored by his brothers, And may he dip his foot in oil.
"Your locks shall be iron and bronze, And according to your days, so shall your leisurely walk be.
"There is none like the God of Jeshurun, Who rides the heavens to your help, And through the skies in His majesty.
"The eternal God is a dwelling place, And underneath are the everlasting arms; And He drove out the enemy from before you, And said, 'Destroy!'
"So Israel dwells in security, The fountain of Jacob secluded, In a land of grain and new wine; His heavens also drop down dew.
"Blessed are you, O Israel; Who is like you, a people saved by the Lord, Who is the shield of your help, And the sword of your majesty! So your enemies shall cringe before you, And you shall tread upon their high places."
