Now it came about after the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, that David remained two days in Ziklag.
And it happened on the third day, that behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn and dust on his head. And it came about when he came to David that he fell to the ground and prostrated himself.
Then David said to him, "From where do you come?" And he said to him, "I have escaped from the camp of Israel."
And David said to him, "How did things go? Please tell me." And he said, "The people have fled from the battle, and also many of the people have fallen and are dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also."
So David said to the young man who told him, "How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?"
And the young man who told him said, "By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and behold, Saul was leaning on his spear. And behold, the chariots and the horsemen pursued him closely.
"And when he looked behind him, he saw me and called to me. And I said, 'Here I am.'
"And he said to me, 'Who are you?' And I answered him, 'I am an Amalekite.'
"Then he said to me, 'Please stand beside me and kill me; for agony has seized me because my life still lingers in me.'
"So I stood beside him and killed him, because I knew that he could not live after he had fallen. And I took the crown which [was] on his head and the bracelet which [was] on his arm, and I have brought them here to my lord."
Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, and [so] also [did] all the men who [were] with him.
And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and his son Jonathan and for the people of the Lord and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
And David said to the young man who told him, "Where are you from?" And he answered, "I am the son of an alien, an Amalekite."
Then David said to him, "How is it you were not afraid to stretch out your hand to destroy the Lord's anointed?"
And David called one of the young men and said, "Go, cut him down." So he struck him and he died.
And David said to him, "Your blood is on your head, for your mouth has testified against you, saying, 'I have killed the Lord's anointed.'"
Then David chanted with this lament over Saul and Jonathan his son,
and he told [them] to teach the sons of Judah [the song of] the bow; behold, it is written in the book of Jashar.
"Your beauty, O Israel, is slain on your high places! How have the mighty fallen!
"Tell [it] not in Gath, Proclaim it not in the streets of Ashkelon; Lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised exult.
"O mountains of Gilboa, Let not dew or rain be on you, nor fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, The shield of Saul, not anointed with oil.
"From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, The bow of Jonathan did not turn back, And the sword of Saul did not return empty.
"Saul and Jonathan, beloved and pleasant in their life, And in their death they were not parted; They were swifter than eagles, They were stronger than lions.
"O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, Who clothed you luxuriously in scarlet, Who put ornaments of gold on your apparel.
"How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places.
"I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was more wonderful Than the love of women.
"How have the mighty fallen, And the weapons of war perished!"
