Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers' [households] of the sons of Israel, to King Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the city of David, which is Zion.
And all the men of Israel assembled themselves to King Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
Then all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
And they brought up the ark of the Lord and the tent of meeting and all the holy utensils, which were in the tent, and the priests and the Levites brought them up.
And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen they could not be counted or numbered.
Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the house, to the most holy place, under the wings of the cherubim.
For the cherubim spread [their] wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim made a covering over the ark and its poles from above.
But the poles were so long that the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place before the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen outside; they are there to this day.
There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, where the Lord made a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
And it came about when the priests came from the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of the Lord,
so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord.
Then Solomon said, "The Lord has said that He would dwell in the thick cloud.
"I have surely built Thee a lofty house, A place for Thy dwelling forever."
Then the king faced about and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel was standing.
And he said, "Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to my father David and has fulfilled [it] with His hand, saying,
'Since the day that I brought My people Israel from Egypt, I did not choose a city out of all the tribes of Israel [in which] to build a house that My name might be there, but I chose David to be over My people Israel.'
"Now it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.
"But the Lord said to my father David, 'Because it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart.
'Nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who shall be born to you, he shall build the house for My name.'
"Now the Lord has fulfilled His word which He spoke; for I have risen in place of my father David and sit on the throne of Israel, as the Lord promised, and have built the house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.
"And there I have set a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord, which He made with our fathers when He brought them from the land of Egypt."
Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven.
And he said, "O Lord, the God of Israel, there is no God like Thee in heaven above or on earth beneath, who art keeping covenant and [showing] lovingkindness to Thy servants who walk before Thee with all their heart,
who hast kept with Thy servant, my father David, that which Thou hast promised him; indeed, Thou hast spoken with Thy mouth and hast fulfilled it with Thy hand as it is this day.
"Now therefore, O Lord, the God of Israel, keep with Thy servant David my father that which Thou hast promised him, saying, 'You shall not lack a man to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons take heed to their way to walk before Me as you have walked.'
"Now therefore, O God of Israel, let Thy word, I pray Thee, be confirmed which Thou hast spoken to Thy servant, my father David.
"But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain Thee, how much less this house which I have built!
"Yet have regard to the prayer of Thy servant and to his supplication, O Lord my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Thy servant prays before Thee today;
that Thine eyes may be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which Thou hast said,' My name shall be there,' to listen to the prayer which Thy servant shall pray toward this place.
"And listen to the supplication of Thy servant and of Thy people Israel, when they pray toward this place; hear Thou in heaven Thy dwelling place; hear and forgive.
"If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes [and] takes an oath before Thine altar in this house,
then hear Thou in heaven and act and judge Thy servants, condemning the wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness.
"When Thy people Israel are defeated before an enemy, because they have sinned against Thee, if they turn to Thee again and confess Thy name and pray and make supplication to Thee in this house,
then hear Thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of Thy people Israel, and bring them back to the land which Thou didst give to their fathers.
"When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against Thee, and they pray toward this place and confess Thy name and turn from their sin when Thou dost afflict them,
then hear Thou in heaven and forgive the sin of Thy servants and of Thy people Israel, indeed, teach them the good way in which they should walk. And send rain on Thy land, which Thou hast given Thy people for an inheritance.
"If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight [or] mildew, locust [or] grasshopper, if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is,
whatever prayer or supplication is made by any man [or] by all Thy people Israel, each knowing the affliction of his own heart, and spreading his hands toward this house;
then hear Thou in heaven Thy dwelling place, and forgive and act and render to each according to all his ways, whose heart Thou knowest, for Thou alone dost know the hearts of all the sons of men,
that they may fear Thee all the days that they live in the land which Thou hast given to our fathers.
"Also concerning the foreigner who is not of Thy people Israel, when he comes from a far country for Thy name's sake
(for they will hear of Thy great name and Thy mighty hand, and of Thine outstretched arm); when he comes and prays toward this house,
hear Thou in heaven Thy dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to Thee, in order that all the peoples of the earth may know Thy name, to fear Thee, as [do] Thy people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by Thy name.
"When Thy people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way Thou shalt send them, and they pray to the Lord toward the city which Thou hast chosen and the house which I have built for Thy name,
then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
"When they sin against Thee (for there is no man who does not sin) and Thou art angry with them and dost deliver them to an enemy, so that they take them away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near;
if they take thought in the land where they have been taken captive, and repent and make supplication to Thee in the land of those who have taken them captive, saying,' We have sinned and have committed iniquity, we have acted wickedly';
if they return to Thee with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies who have taken them captive, and pray to Thee toward their land which Thou hast given to their fathers, the city which Thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for Thy name;
then hear their prayer and their supplication in heaven Thy dwelling place, and maintain their cause,
and forgive Thy people who have sinned against Thee and all their transgressions which they have transgressed against Thee, and make them [objects of] compassion before those who have taken them captive, that they may have compassion on them
(for they are Thy people and Thine inheritance which Thou hast brought forth from Egypt, from the midst of the iron furnace),
that Thine eyes may be open to the supplication of Thy servant and to the supplication of Thy people Israel, to listen to them whenever they call to Thee.
"For Thou hast separated them from all the peoples of the earth as Thine inheritance, as Thou didst speak through Moses Thy servant, when Thou didst bring our fathers forth from Egypt, O Lord God."
And it came about that when Solomon had finished praying this entire prayer and supplication to the Lord, he arose from before the altar of the Lord, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread toward heaven.
And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
"Blessed be the Lord, who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised; not one word has failed of all His good promise, which He promised through Moses His servant.
"May the Lord our God be with us, as He was with our fathers; may He not leave us or forsake us,
that He may incline our hearts to Himself, to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His ordinances, which He commanded our fathers.
"And may these words of mine, with which I have made supplication before the Lord, be near to the Lord our God day and night, that He may maintain the cause of His servant and the cause of His people Israel, as each day requires,
so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the Lord is God; there is no one else.
"Let your heart therefore be wholly devoted to the Lord our God, to walk in His statutes and to keep His commandments, as at this day."
Now the king and all Israel with him offered sacrifice before the Lord.
And Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to the Lord, 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the sons of Israel dedicated the house of the Lord.
On the same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that [was] before the house of the Lord, because there he offered the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings; for the bronze altar that [was] before the Lord [was] too small to hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings.
So Solomon observed the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt, before the Lord our God, for seven days and seven [more] days, [even] fourteen days.
On the eighth day he sent the people away and they blessed the king. Then they went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the Lord had shown to David His servant and to Israel His people.
