Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
"Command the sons of Israel that they bring to you clear oil from beaten olives for the light, to make a lamp burn continually.
"Outside the veil of testimony in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall keep it in order from evening to morning before the Lord continually; [it shall be] a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
"He shall keep the lamps in order on the pure [gold] lampstand before the Lord continually.
"Then you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it; two-tenths [of an ephah] shall be [in] each cake.
"And you shall set them [in] two rows, six [to] a row, on the pure [gold] table before the Lord.
"And you shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be a memorial portion for the bread, [even] an offering by fire to the Lord.
"Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before the Lord continually; it is an everlasting covenant for the sons of Israel.
"And it shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place; for it is most holy to him from the Lord's offerings by fire, [his] portion forever."
Now the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel; and the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel struggled with each other in the camp.
And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name and cursed. So they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)
And they put him in custody so that the command of the Lord might be made clear to them.
Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
"Bring the one who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head; then let all the congregation stone him.
"And you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, 'If anyone curses his God, then he shall bear his sin.
'Moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him. The alien as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
' And if a man takes the life of any human being, he shall surely be put to death.
'And the one who takes the life of an animal shall make it good, life for life.
'And if a man injures his neighbor, just as he has done, so it shall be done to him:
fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; just as he has injured a man, so it shall be inflicted on him.
'Thus the one who kills an animal shall make it good, but the one who kills a man shall be put to death.
'There shall be one standard for you; it shall be for the stranger as well as the native, for I am the Lord your God.' "
Then Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they brought the one who had cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. Thus the sons of Israel did, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.
