Masters, grant to your slaves justice and fairness, knowing that you too have a Master in heaven.
Devote yourselves to prayer, keeping alert in it with [an attitude of] thanksgiving;
praying at the same time for us as well, that God may open up to us a door for the word, so that we may speak forth the mystery of Christ, for which I have also been imprisoned;
in order that I may make it clear in the way I ought to speak.
Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunity.
Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned, [as it were,] with salt, so that you may know how you should respond to each person.
As to all my affairs, Tychicus, [our] beloved brother and faithful servant and fellow bond-servant in the Lord, will bring you information.
For I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know [about] our circumstances and that he may encourage your hearts;
and with him Onesimus, [our] faithful and beloved brother, who is one of your [number.] They will inform you about the whole situation here.
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you his greetings; and [also] Barnabas' cousin Mark (about whom you received instructions: if he comes to you, welcome him);
and [also] Jesus who is called Justus; these are the only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are from the circumcision; and they have proved to be an encouragement to me.
Epaphras, who is one of your number, a bondslave of Jesus Christ, sends you his greetings, always laboring earnestly for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and fully assured in all the will of God.
For I bear him witness that he has a deep concern for you and for those who are in Laodicea and Hierapolis.
Luke, the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and [also] Demas.
Greet the brethren who are in Laodicea and also Nympha and the church that is in her house.
And when this letter is read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans; and you, for your part read my letter [that is coming] from Laodicea.
And say to Archippus, "Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you may fulfill it."
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my imprisonment. Grace be with you.
