The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, Who will prepare Your way;
The voice of one crying in the wilderness,' Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight.' "
John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
And all the country of Judea was going out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel's hair and [wore] a leather belt around his waist, and his diet was locusts and wild honey.
And he was preaching, and saying, "After me One is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to stoop down and untie the thong of His sandals.
"I baptized you with water; but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."
And it came about in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And immediately coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens opening, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon Him;
and a voice came out of the heavens: "Thou art My beloved Son, in Thee I am well-pleased."
And immediately the Spirit *impelled Him [to go] out into the wilderness.
And He was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan; and He was with the wild beasts, and the angels were ministering to Him.
And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God,
and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel."
And as He was going along by the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net in the sea; for they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you become fishers of men."
And they immediately left the nets and followed Him.
And going on a little farther, He saw James the [son] of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets.
And immediately He called them; and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went away to follow Him.
And they *went into Capernaum; and immediately on the Sabbath He entered the synagogue and [began] to teach.
And they were amazed at His teaching; for He was teaching them as [one] having authority, and not as the scribes.
And just then there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
saying, "What do we have to do with You, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are-- the Holy One of God!"
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet, and come out of him!"
And throwing him into convulsions, the unclean spirit cried out with a loud voice, and came out of him.
And they were all amazed, so that they debated among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him."
And immediately the news about Him went out everywhere into all the surrounding district of Galilee.
And immediately after they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Now Simon's mother-in-law was lying sick with a fever; and immediately they *spoke to Him about her.
And He came to her and raised her up, taking her by the hand, and the fever left her, and she waited on them.
And when evening had come, after the sun had set, they [began] bringing to Him all who were ill and those who were demon-possessed.
And the whole city had gathered at the door.
And He healed many who were ill with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and He was not permitting the demons to speak, because they knew who He was.
And in the early morning, while it was still dark, He arose and went out and departed to a lonely place, and was praying there.
And Simon and his companions hunted for Him;
and they found Him, and *said to Him, "Everyone is looking for You."
And He *said to them, "Let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, in order that I may preach there also; for that is what I came out for."
And He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out the demons.
And a leper *came to Him, beseeching Him and falling on his knees before Him, and saying to Him, "If You are willing, You can make me clean."
And moved with compassion, He stretched out His hand, and touched him, and *said to him, "I am willing; be cleansed."
And immediately the leprosy left him and he was cleansed.
And He sternly warned him and immediately sent him away,
and He *said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them."
But he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the news about, to such an extent that Jesus could no longer publicly enter a city, but stayed out in unpopulated areas; and they were coming to Him from everywhere.
