And rising up, He *went from there to the region of Judea, and beyond the Jordan; and crowds *gathered around Him again, and, according to His custom, He once more [began] to teach them.
And [some] Pharisees came up to Him, testing Him, and [began] to question Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife.
And He answered and said to them, "What did Moses command you?"
And they said, "Moses permitted [a man] to write a certificate of divorce and send [her] away."
But Jesus said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
"But from the beginning of creation, [God] made them male and female.
"For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother,
and the two shall become one flesh; consequently they are no longer two, but one flesh.
"What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate."
And in the house the disciples [began] questioning Him about this again.
And He *said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her;
and if she herself divorces her husband and marries another man, she is committing adultery. "
And they were bringing children to Him so that He might touch them; and the disciples rebuked them.
But when Jesus saw this, He was indignant and said to them, "Permit the children to come to Me; do not hinder them; for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
"Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it [at all.]"
And He took them in His arms and [began] blessing them, laying His hands upon them.
And as He was setting out on a journey, a man ran up to Him and knelt before Him, and [began] asking Him, "Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"
And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone.
"You know the commandments, 'Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.'"
And he said to Him, "Teacher, I have kept all these things from my youth up."
And looking at him, Jesus felt a love for him, and said to him, "One thing you lack: go and sell all you possess, and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me."
But at these words his face fell, and he went away grieved, for he was one who owned much property.
And Jesus, looking around, *said to His disciples, "How hard it will be for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God!"
And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus *answered again and *said to them, "Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God!
"It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God."
And they were even more astonished and said to Him, "Then who can be saved?"
Looking upon them, Jesus *said, "With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God."
Peter began to say to Him, "Behold, we have left everything and followed You."
Jesus said, "Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or farms, for My sake and for the gospel's sake,
but that he shall receive a hundred times as much now in the present age, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and farms, along with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life.
"But many [who are] first, will be last; and the last, first."
And they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking on ahead of them; and they were amazed, and those who followed were fearful. And again He took the twelve aside and began to tell them what was going to happen to Him,
[saying,] "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes; and they will condemn Him to death, and will deliver Him to the Gentiles.
"And they will mock Him and spit upon Him, and scourge Him, and kill [Him,] and three days later He will rise again."
And James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, *came up to Him, saying to Him, "Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You."
And He said to them, "What do you want Me to do for you?"
And they said to Him, "Grant that we may sit in Your glory, one on Your right, and one on [Your] left."
But Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you are asking for. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?"
And they said to Him, "We are able." And Jesus said to them, "The cup that I drink you shall drink; and you shall be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized.
"But to sit on My right or on [My] left, this is not Mine to give; but it is for those for whom it has been prepared."
And hearing this, the ten began to feel indignant with James and John.
And calling them to Himself, Jesus *said to them, "You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them; and their great men exercise authority over them.
"But it is not so among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant;
and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be slave of all.
"For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many."
And they *came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho with His disciples and a great multitude, a blind beggar [named] Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
And many were sternly telling him to be quiet, but he kept crying out all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him [here.]" And they *called the blind man, saying to him, "Take courage, arise! He is calling for you."
And casting aside his cloak, he jumped up, and came to Jesus.
And answering him, Jesus said, "What do you want Me to do for you?" And the blind man said to Him, "Rabboni, [I want] to regain my sight!"
And Jesus said to him, "Go your way; your faith has made you well." And immediately he regained his sight and [began] following Him on the road.
