And the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together around Him when they had come from Jerusalem,
and had seen that some of His disciples were eating their bread with impure hands, that is, unwashed.
(For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands, [thus] observing the traditions of the elders;
and [when they come] from the market place, they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves; and there are many other things which they have received in order to observe, such as the washing of cups and pitchers and copper pots.)
And the Pharisees and the scribes *asked Him, "Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with impure hands?"
And He said to them, "Rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, 'This people honors Me with their lips, But their heart is far away from Me.
'But in vain do they worship Me, Teaching as doctrines the precepts of men.'
"Neglecting the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men."
He was also saying to them, "You nicely set aside the commandment of God in order to keep your tradition.
"For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother'; and, 'He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death';
but you say,' If a man says to [his] father or [his] mother, anything of mine you might have been helped by is Corban (that is to say, given [to God]),'
you no longer permit him to do anything for [his] father or [his] mother;
[thus] invalidating the word of God by your tradition which you have handed down; and you do many things such as that. "
And after He called the multitude to Him again, He [began] saying to them, "Listen to Me, all of you, and understand:
there is nothing outside the man which going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are what defile the man.
["If any man has ears to hear, let him hear."]
And when leaving the multitude, He had entered the house, His disciples questioned Him about the parable.
And He *said to them, "Are you so lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that whatever goes into the man from outside cannot defile him;
because it does not go into his heart, but into his stomach, and is eliminated? "([Thus He] declared all foods clean.)
And He was saying, "That which proceeds out of the man, that is what defiles the man.
"For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries,
deeds of coveting [and] wickedness, [as well as] deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride [and] foolishness.
"All these evil things proceed from within and defile the man."
And from there He arose and went away to the region of Tyre. And when He had entered a house, He wanted no one to know [of it;] yet He could not escape notice.
But after hearing of Him, a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, immediately came and fell at His feet.
Now the woman was a Gentile, of the Syrophoenician race. And she kept asking Him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
And He was saying to her, "Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."
But she answered and *said to Him, "Yes, Lord, [but] even the dogs under the table feed on the children's crumbs."
And He said to her, "Because of this answer go your way; the demon has gone out of your daughter."
And going back to her home, she found the child lying on the bed, the demon having departed.
And again He went out from the region of Tyre, and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, within the region of Decapolis.
And they *brought to Him one who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and they *entreated Him to lay His hand upon him.
And He took him aside from the multitude by himself, and put His fingers into his ears, and after spitting, He touched his tongue [with the saliva;]
and looking up to heaven with a deep sigh, He *said to him, "Ephphatha!" that is, "Be opened!"
And his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was removed, and he [began] speaking plainly.
And He gave them orders not to tell anyone; but the more He ordered them, the more widely they continued to proclaim it.
And they were utterly astonished, saying, "He has done all things well; He makes even the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak."
