And early in the morning the chief priests with the elders and scribes, and the whole Council, immediately held a consultation; and binding Jesus, they led Him away, and delivered Him up to Pilate.
And Pilate questioned Him, "Are You the King of the Jews?" And answering He *said to him, "[It is as] you say."
And the chief priests [began] to accuse Him harshly.
And Pilate was questioning Him again, saying, "Do You make no answer? See how many charges they bring against You!"
But Jesus made no further answer; so that Pilate was amazed.
Now at [the] feast he used to release for them [any] one prisoner whom they requested.
And the man named Barabbas had been imprisoned with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the multitude went up and began asking him [to do] as he had been accustomed to do for them.
And Pilate answered them, saying, "Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?"
For he was aware that the chief priests had delivered Him up because of envy.
But the chief priests stirred up the multitude [to ask] him to release Barabbas for them instead.
And answering again, Pilate was saying to them, "Then what shall I do with Him whom you call the King of the Jews?"
And they shouted back, "Crucify Him!"
But Pilate was saying to them, "Why, what evil has He done?" But they shouted all the more, "Crucify Him!"
And wishing to satisfy the multitude, Pilate released Barabbas for them, and after having Jesus scourged, he delivered [Him] to be crucified.
And the soldiers took Him away into the palace (that is, the Praetorium), and they *called together the whole [Roman] cohort.
And they *dressed Him up in purple, and after weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on Him;
and they began to acclaim Him, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
And they kept beating His head with a reed, and spitting at Him, and kneeling and bowing before Him.
And after they had mocked Him, they took the purple off Him, and put His garments on Him. And they *led Him out to crucify Him.
And they *pressed into service a passer-by coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene (the father of Alexander and Rufus), to bear His cross.
And they *brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is translated, Place of a Skull.
And they tried to give Him wine mixed with myrrh; but He did not take it.
And they *crucified Him, and *divided up His garments among themselves, casting lots for them, [to decide] what each should take.
And it was the third hour when they crucified Him.
And the inscription of the charge against Him read, "THE KING OF THE JEWS."
And they *crucified two robbers with Him, one on His right and one on His left.
[And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And He was numbered with transgressors."]
And those passing by were hurling abuse at Him, wagging their heads, and saying, "Ha! You who [are going to] destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
save Yourself, and come down from the cross! "
In the same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes, were mocking [Him] among themselves and saying, "He saved others; He cannot save Himself.
"Let [this] Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross, so that we may see and believe!" And those who were crucified with Him were casting the same insult at Him.
And when the sixth hour had come, darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?" which is translated, "My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?"
And when some of the bystanders heard it, they [began] saying, "Behold, He is calling for Elijah."
And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave Him a drink, saying, "Let us see whether Elijah will come to take Him down."
And Jesus uttered a loud cry, and breathed His last.
And the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom.
And when the centurion, who was standing right in front of Him, saw the way He breathed His last, he said, "Truly this man was the Son of God!"
And there were also [some] women looking on from a distance, among whom [were] Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and Joses, and Salome.
And when He was in Galilee, they used to follow Him and minister to Him; and [there were] many other women who had come up with Him to Jerusalem.
And when evening had already come, because it was the preparation day, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea came, a prominent member of the Council, who himself was waiting for the kingdom of God; and he gathered up courage and went in before Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
And Pilate wondered if He was dead by this time, and summoning the centurion, he questioned him as to whether He was already dead.
And ascertaining this from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.
And [Joseph] bought a linen cloth, took Him down, wrapped Him in the linen cloth, and laid Him in a tomb which had been hewn out in the rock; and he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the [mother] of Joses were looking on [to see] where He was laid.
