The oracle concerning the valley of vision. What is the matter with you now, that you have all gone up to the housetops?
You who were full of noise, You boisterous town, you exultant city; Your slain were not slain with the sword, Nor did they die in battle.
All your rulers have fled together, [And] have been captured without the bow; All of you who were found were taken captive together, Though they had fled far away.
Therefore I say, "Turn your eyes away from me, Let me weep bitterly, Do not try to comfort me concerning the destruction of the daughter of my people."
For the Lord God of hosts has a day of panic, subjugation, and confusion In the valley of vision, A breaking down of walls And a crying to the mountain.
And Elam took up the quiver With the chariots, infantry, [and] horsemen; And Kir uncovered the shield.
Then your choicest valleys were full of chariots, And the horsemen took up fixed positions at the gate.
And He removed the defense of Judah. In that day you depended on the weapons of the house of the forest,
And you saw that the breaches In the [wall] of the city of David were many; And you collected the waters of the lower pool.
Then you counted the houses of Jerusalem, And you tore down houses to fortify the wall.
And you made a reservoir between the two walls For the waters of the old pool. But you did not depend on Him who made it, Nor did you take into consideration Him who planned it long ago.
Therefore in that day the Lord God of hosts, called [you] to weeping, to wailing, To shaving the head, and to wearing sackcloth.
Instead, there is gaiety and gladness, Killing of cattle and slaughtering of sheep, Eating of meat and drinking of wine: "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we may die."
But the Lord of hosts revealed Himself to me, "Surely this iniquity shall not be forgiven you Until you die," says the Lord God of hosts.
Thus says the Lord God of hosts, "Come, go to this steward, To Shebna, who is in charge of the [royal] household,
'What right do you have here, And whom do you have here, That you have hewn a tomb for yourself here, You who hew a tomb on the height, You who carve a resting place for yourself in the rock?
'Behold, the Lord is about to hurl you headlong, O man. And He is about to grasp you firmly,
[And] roll you tightly like a ball, [To be cast] into a vast country; There you will die, And there your splendid chariots will be, You shame of your master's house.'
"And I will depose you from your office, And I will pull you down from your station.
"Then it will come about in that day, That I will summon My servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah
And I will clothe him with your tunic, And tie your sash securely about him, I will entrust him with your authority, And he will become a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
"Then I will set the key of the house of David on his shoulder, When he opens no one will shut, When he shuts no one will open.
"And I will drive him [like] a peg in a firm place, And he will become a throne of glory to his father's house.
"So they will hang on him all the glory of his father's house, offspring and issue, all the least of vessels, from bowls to all the jars.
"In that day," declares the Lord of hosts, "the peg driven in a firm place will give way; it will even break off and fall, and the load hanging on it will be cut off, for the Lord has spoken."
