"I permitted Myself to be sought by those who did not ask [for Me;] I permitted Myself to be found by those who did not seek Me. I said, 'Here am I, here am I,' To a nation which did not call on My name.
"I have spread out My hands all day long to a rebellious people, Who walk [in] the way which is not good, following their own thoughts,
A people who continually provoke Me to My face, Offering sacrifices in gardens and burning incense on bricks;
Who sit among graves, and spend the night in secret places; Who eat swine's flesh, And the broth of unclean meat is [in] their pots.
"Who say, 'Keep to yourself, do not come near me, For I am holier than you!' These are smoke in My nostrils, A fire that burns all the day.
"Behold, it is written before Me, I will not keep silent, but I will repay; I will even repay into their bosom,
Both their own iniquities and the iniquities of their fathers together, "says the Lord." Because they have burned incense on the mountains, And scorned Me on the hills, Therefore I will measure their former work into their bosom. "
Thus says the Lord, "As the new wine is found in the cluster, And one says, 'Do not destroy it, for there is benefit in it,' So I will act on behalf of My servants In order not to destroy all of them.
"And I will bring forth offspring from Jacob, And an heir of My mountains from Judah; Even My chosen ones shall inherit it, And My servants shall dwell there.
"And Sharon shall be a pasture land for flocks, And the valley of Achor a resting place for herds, For My people who seek Me.
"But you who forsake the Lord, Who forget My holy mountain, Who set a table for Fortune, And who fill [cups] with mixed wine for Destiny,
I will destine you for the sword, And all of you shall bow down to the slaughter. Because I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not hear. And you did evil in My sight, And chose that in which I did not delight. "
Therefore, thus says the Lord God, "Behold, My servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry. Behold, My servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, My servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame.
"Behold, My servants shall shout joyfully with a glad heart, But you shall cry out with a heavy heart, And you shall wail with a broken spirit.
"And you will leave your name for a curse to My chosen ones, And the Lord God will slay you. But My servants will be called by another name.
"Because he who is blessed in the earth Shall be blessed by the God of truth; And he who swears in the earth Shall swear by the God of truth; Because the former troubles are forgotten, And because they are hidden from My sight!
"For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; And the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind.
"But be glad and rejoice forever in what I create; For behold, I create Jerusalem [for] rejoicing, And her people [for] gladness.
"I will also rejoice in Jerusalem, and be glad in My people; And there will no longer be heard in her The voice of weeping and the sound of crying.
"No longer will there be in it an infant [who lives but a few] days, Or an old man who does not live out his days; For the youth will die at the age of one hundred And the one who does not reach the age of one hundred Shall be [thought] accursed.
"And they shall build houses and inhabit [them;] They shall also plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
"They shall not build, and another inhabit, They shall not plant, and another eat; For as the lifetime of a tree, [so shall be] the days of My people, And My chosen ones shall wear out the work of their hands.
"They shall not labor in vain, Or bear [children] for calamity; For they are the offspring of those blessed by the Lord, And their descendants with them.
"It will also come to pass that before they call, I will answer; and while they are still speaking, I will hear.
"The wolf and the lamb shall graze together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall do no evil or harm in all My holy mountain," says the Lord.
