Thus says the Lord, "Heaven is My throne, and the earth is My footstool. Where then is a house you could build for Me? And where is a place that I may rest?
"For My hand made all these things, Thus all these things came into being," declares the Lord. "But to this one I will look, To him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at My word.
"[But] he who kills an ox is [like] one who slays a man; He who sacrifices a lamb is [like] the one who breaks a dog's neck; He who offers a grain offering [is like one who offers] swine's blood; He who burns incense is [like] the one who blesses an idol. As they have chosen their [own] ways, And their soul delights in their abominations,
So I will choose their punishments, And I will bring on them what they dread. Because I called, but no one answered; I spoke, but they did not listen. And they did evil in My sight, And chose that in which I did not delight. "
Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at His word: "Your brothers who hate you, who exclude you for My name's sake, Have said, 'Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy.' But they will be put to shame.
"A voice of uproar from the city, a voice from the temple, The voice of the Lord who is rendering recompense to His enemies.
"Before she travailed, she brought forth; Before her pain came, she gave birth to a boy.
"Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Can a land be born in one day? Can a nation be brought forth all at once? As soon as Zion travailed, she also brought forth her sons.
"Shall I bring to the point of birth, and not give delivery?" says the Lord. "Or shall I who gives delivery shut [the womb?]" says your God.
"Be joyful with Jerusalem and rejoice for her, all you who love her; Be exceedingly glad with her, all you who mourn over her,
That you may nurse and be satisfied with her comforting breasts, That you may suck and be delighted with her bountiful bosom. "
For thus says the Lord, "Behold, I extend peace to her like a river, And the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream; And you shall be nursed, you shall be carried on the hip and fondled on the knees.
"As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; And you shall be comforted in Jerusalem."
Then you shall see [this,] and your heart shall be glad, And your bones shall flourish like the new grass; And the hand of the Lord shall be made known to His servants, But He shall be indignant toward His enemies.
For behold, the Lord will come in fire And His chariots like the whirlwind, To render His anger with fury, And His rebuke with flames of fire.
For the Lord will execute judgment by fire And by His sword on all flesh, And those slain by the Lord will be many.
"Those who sanctify and purify themselves [to go] to the gardens, Following one in the center, Who eat swine's flesh, detestable things, and mice, Shall come to an end altogether," declares the Lord.
"For I know their works and their thoughts; the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues. And they shall come and see My glory.
"And I will set a sign among them and will send survivors from them to the nations: Tarshish, Put, Lud, Meshech, Rosh, Tubal, and Javan, to the distant coastlands that have neither heard My fame nor seen My glory. And they will declare My glory among the nations.
"Then they shall bring all your brethren from all the nations as a grain offering to the Lord, on horses, in chariots, in litters, on mules, and on camels, to My holy mountain Jerusalem," says the Lord, "just as the sons of Israel bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord.
"I will also take some of them for priests [and] for Levites," says the Lord.
"For just as the new heavens and the new earth Which I make will endure before Me," declares the Lord, "So your offspring and your name will endure.
"And it shall be from new moon to new moon And from sabbath to sabbath, All mankind will come to bow down before Me," says the Lord.
"Then they shall go forth and look On the corpses of the men Who have transgressed against Me. For their worm shall not die, And their fire shall not be quenched; And they shall be an abhorrence to all mankind."
