The oracle concerning Babylon which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw.
Lift up a standard on the bare hill, Raise your voice to them, Wave the hand that they may enter the doors of the nobles.
I have commanded My consecrated ones, I have even called My mighty warriors, My proudly exulting ones, To [execute] My anger.
A sound of tumult on the mountains, Like that of many people! A sound of the uproar of kingdoms, Of nations gathered together! The Lord of hosts is mustering the army for battle.
They are coming from a far country From the farthest horizons, The Lord and His instruments of indignation, To destroy the whole land.
Wail, for the day of the Lord is near! It will come as destruction from the Almighty.
Therefore all hands will fall limp, And every man's heart will melt.
And they will be terrified, Pains and anguish will take hold of [them]; They will writhe like a woman in labor, They will look at one another in astonishment, Their faces aflame.
Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, Cruel, with fury and burning anger, To make the land a desolation; And He will exterminate its sinners from it.
For the stars of heaven and their constellations Will not flash forth their light; The sun will be dark when it rises, And the moon will not shed its light.
Thus I will punish the world for its evil, And the wicked for their iniquity; I will also put an end to the arrogance of the proud, And abase the haughtiness of the ruthless.
I will make mortal man scarcer than pure gold, And mankind than the gold of Ophir.
Therefore I shall make the heavens tremble, And the earth will be shaken from its place At the fury of the Lord of hosts In the day of His burning anger.
And it will be that like a hunted gazelle, Or like sheep with none to gather [them,] They will each turn to his own people, And each one flee to his own land.
Anyone who is found will be thrust through, And anyone who is captured will fall by the sword.
Their little ones also will be dashed to pieces Before their eyes; Their houses will be plundered And their wives ravished.
Behold, I am going to stir up the Medes against them, Who will not value silver or take pleasure in gold,
And [their] bows will mow down the young men, They will not even have compassion on the fruit of the womb, [Nor] will their eye pity children.
And Babylon, the beauty of kingdoms, the glory of the Chaldeans' pride, Will be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.
It will never be inhabited or lived in from generation to generation; Nor will the Arab pitch [his] tent there, Nor will shepherds make [their flocks] lie down there.
But desert creatures will lie down there, And their houses will be full of owls, Ostriches also will live there, and shaggy goats will frolic there.
And hyenas will howl in their fortified towers And jackals in their luxurious palaces. Her [fateful] time also will soon come And her days will not be prolonged.
