Woe to you, O destroyer, While you were not destroyed; And he who is treacherous, while [others] did not deal treacherously with him. As soon as you shall finish destroying, you shall be destroyed; As soon as you shall cease to deal treacherously, [others] shall deal treacherously with you.
O Lord, be gracious to us; we have waited for Thee. Be Thou their strength every morning, Our salvation also in the time of distress.
At the sound of the tumult peoples flee; At the lifting up of Thyself nations disperse.
And your spoil is gathered [as] the caterpillar gathers; As locusts rushing about, men rush about on it.
The Lord is exalted, for He dwells on high; He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
And He shall be the stability of your times, A wealth of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; The fear of the Lord is his treasure.
Behold, their brave men cry in the streets, The ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
The highways are desolate, the traveler has ceased, He has broken the covenant, he has despised the cities, He has no regard for man.
The land mourns and pines away, Lebanon is shamed and withers; Sharon is like a desert plain, And Bashan and Carmel lose [their foliage.]
"Now I will arise," says the Lord, "Now I will be exalted, now I will be lifted up.
"You have conceived chaff, you will give birth to stubble; My breath will consume you like a fire.
"And the peoples will be burned to lime, Like cut thorns which are burned in the fire.
"You who are far away, hear what I have done; And you who are near, acknowledge My might."
Sinners in Zion are terrified; Trembling has seized the godless. "Who among us can live with the consuming fire? Who among us can live with continual burning?"
He who walks righteously, and speaks with sincerity, He who rejects unjust gain, And shakes his hands so that they hold no bribe; He who stops his ears from hearing about bloodshed, And shuts his eyes from looking upon evil;
He will dwell on the heights; His refuge will be the impregnable rock; His bread will be given [him;] His water will be sure.
Your eyes will see the King in His beauty; They will behold a far-distant land.
Your heart will meditate on terror: "Where is he who counts? Where is he who weighs? Where is he who counts the towers?"
You will no longer see a fierce people, A people of unintelligible speech which no one comprehends, Of a stammering tongue which no one understands.
Look upon Zion, the city of our appointed feasts; Your eyes shall see Jerusalem an undisturbed habitation, A tent which shall not be folded, Its stakes shall never be pulled up Nor any of its cords be torn apart.
But there the majestic [One,] the Lord, shall be for us A place of rivers [and] wide canals, On which no boat with oars shall go, And on which no mighty ship shall pass--
For the Lord is our judge, The Lord is our lawgiver, The Lord is our king; He will save us--
Your tackle hangs slack; It cannot hold the base of its mast firmly, Nor spread out the sail. Then the prey of an abundant spoil will be divided; The lame will take the plunder.
And no resident will say, "I am sick"; The people who dwell there will be forgiven [their] iniquity.
