The word which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
Now it will come about that In the last days, The mountain of the house of the Lord Will be established as the chief of the mountains, And will be raised above the hills; And all the nations will stream to it.
And many peoples will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, To the house of the God of Jacob; That He may teach us concerning His ways, And that we may walk in His paths." For the law will go forth from Zion, And the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
And He will judge between the nations, And will render decisions for many peoples; And they will hammer their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, And never again will they learn war.
Come, house of Jacob, and let us walk in the light of the Lord.
For Thou hast abandoned Thy people, the house of Jacob, Because they are filled [with influences] from the east, And [they are] soothsayers like the Philistines, And they strike [bargains] with the children of foreigners.
Their land has also been filled with silver and gold, And there is no end to their treasures; Their land has also been filled with horses, And there is no end to their chariots.
Their land has also been filled with idols; They worship the work of their hands, That which their fingers have made.
So the [common] man has been humbled, And the man [of importance] has been abased, But do not forgive them.
Enter the rock and hide in the dust From the terror of the Lord and from the splendor of His majesty.
The proud look of man will be abased, And the loftiness of man will be humbled, And the Lord alone will be exalted in that day.
For the Lord of hosts will have a day [of reckoning] Against everyone who is proud and lofty, And against everyone who is lifted up, That he may be abased.
And [it will be] against all the cedars of Lebanon that are lofty and lifted up, Against all the oaks of Bashan,
Against all the lofty mountains, Against all the hills that are lifted up,
Against every high tower, Against every fortified wall,
Against all the ships of Tarshish, And against all the beautiful craft.
And the pride of man will be humbled, And the loftiness of men will be abased, And the Lord alone will be exalted in that day.
But the idols will completely vanish.
And [men] will go into caves of the rocks, And into holes of the ground Before the terror of the Lord, And before the splendor of His majesty, When He arises to make the earth tremble.
In that day men will cast away to the moles and the bats Their idols of silver and their idols of gold, Which they made for themselves to worship,
In order to go into the caverns of the rocks and the clefts of the cliffs, Before the terror of the Lord and the splendor of His majesty, When He arises to make the earth tremble.
Stop regarding man, whose breath [of life] is in his nostrils; For why should he be esteemed?
