"Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, Who seek the Lord: Look to the rock from which you were hewn, And to the quarry from which you were dug.
"Look to Abraham your father, And to Sarah who gave birth to you in pain; When [he was] one I called him, Then I blessed him and multiplied him."
Indeed, the Lord will comfort Zion; He will comfort all her waste places. And her wilderness He will make like Eden, And her desert like the garden of the Lord; Joy and gladness will be found in her, Thanksgiving and sound of a melody.
"Pay attention to Me, O My people; And give ear to Me, O My nation; For a law will go forth from Me, And I will set My justice for a light of the peoples.
"My righteousness is near, My salvation has gone forth, And My arms will judge the peoples; The coastlands will wait for Me, And for My arm they will wait expectantly.
"Lift up your eyes to the sky, Then look to the earth beneath; For the sky will vanish like smoke, And the earth will wear out like a garment, And its inhabitants will die in like manner, But My salvation shall be forever, And My righteousness shall not wane.
"Listen to Me, you who know righteousness, A people in whose heart is My law; Do not fear the reproach of man, Neither be dismayed at their revilings.
"For the moth will eat them like a garment, And the grub will eat them like wool. But My righteousness shall be forever, And My salvation to all generations."
Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord; Awake as in the days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not Thou who cut Rahab in pieces, Who pierced the dragon?
Was it not Thou who dried up the sea, The waters of the great deep; Who made the depths of the sea a pathway For the redeemed to cross over?
So the ransomed of the Lord will return, And come with joyful shouting to Zion; And everlasting joy [will be] on their heads. They will obtain gladness and joy, And sorrow and sighing will flee away.
"I, even I, am He who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who dies, And of the son of man who is made like grass;
That you have forgotten the Lord your Maker, Who stretched out the heavens, And laid the foundations of the earth; That you fear continually all day long because of the fury of the oppressor, As he makes ready to destroy? But where is the fury of the oppressor?
"The exile will soon be set free, and will not die in the dungeon, nor will his bread be lacking.
"For I am the Lord your God, who stirs up the sea and its waves roar (the Lord of hosts is His name).
"And I have put My words in your mouth, and have covered you with the shadow of My hand, to establish the heavens, to found the earth, and to say to Zion, 'You are My people.'"
Rouse yourself! Rouse yourself! Arise, O Jerusalem, You who have drunk from the Lord's hand the cup of His anger; The chalice of reeling you have drained to the dregs.
There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne; Nor is there one to take her by the hand among all the sons she has reared.
These two things have befallen you; Who will mourn for you? The devastation and destruction, famine and sword; How shall I comfort you?
Your sons have fainted, They lie [helpless] at the head of every street, Like an antelope in a net, Full of the wrath of the Lord, The rebuke of your God.
Therefore, please hear this, you afflicted, Who are drunk, but not with wine:
Thus says your Lord, the Lord, even your God Who contends for His people, "Behold, I have taken out of your hand the cup of reeling; The chalice of My anger, You will never drink it again.
"And I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, Who have said to you, 'Lie down that we may walk over you.' You have even made your back like the ground, And like the street for those who walk over [it]."
