Draw near, O nations, to hear; and listen, O peoples! Let the earth and all it contains hear, and the world and all that springs from it.
For the Lord's indignation is against all the nations, And [His] wrath against all their armies; He has utterly destroyed them, He has given them over to slaughter.
So their slain will be thrown out, And their corpses will give off their stench, And the mountains will be drenched with their blood.
And all the host of heaven will wear away, And the sky will be rolled up like a scroll; All their hosts will also wither away As a leaf withers from the vine, Or as [one] withers from the fig tree.
For My sword is satiated in heaven, Behold it shall descend for judgment upon Edom, And upon the people whom I have devoted to destruction.
The sword of the Lord is filled with blood, It is sated with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, With the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the Lord has a sacrifice in Bozrah, And a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
Wild oxen shall also fall with them, And young bulls with strong ones; Thus their land shall be soaked with blood, And their dust become greasy with fat.
For the Lord has a day of vengeance, A year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
And its streams shall be turned into pitch, And its loose earth into brimstone, And its land shall become burning pitch.
It shall not be quenched night or day; Its smoke shall go up forever; From generation to generation it shall be desolate; None shall pass through it forever and ever.
But pelican and hedgehog shall possess it, And owl and raven shall dwell in it; And He shall stretch over it the line of desolation And the plumb line of emptiness.
Its nobles-- there is no one there [Whom] they may proclaim king-- And all its princes shall be nothing.
And thorns shall come up in its fortified towers, Nettles and thistles in its fortified cities; It shall also be a haunt of jackals [And] an abode of ostriches.
And the desert creatures shall meet with the wolves, The hairy goat also shall cry to its kind; Yes, the night monster shall settle there And shall find herself a resting place.
The tree snake shall make its nest and lay [eggs] there, And it will hatch and gather [them] under its protection. Yes, the hawks shall be gathered there, Every one with its kind.
Seek from the book of the Lord, and read: Not one of these will be missing; None will lack its mate. For His mouth has commanded, And His Spirit has gathered them.
And He has cast the lot for them, And His hand has divided it to them by line. They shall possess it forever; From generation to generation they shall dwell in it.
