Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God; and whoever loves the Father loves the [child] born of Him.
By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and observe His commandments.
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
For whatever is born of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory that has overcome the world-- our faith.
And who is the one who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ; not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood.
And it is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
For there are three that bear witness, the Spirit and the water and the blood; and the three are in agreement.
If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater; for the witness of God is this, that He has borne witness concerning His Son.
The one who believes in the Son of God has the witness in himself; the one who does not believe God has made Him a liar, because he has not believed in the witness that God has borne concerning His Son.
And the witness is this, that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son.
He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life.
And this is the confidence which we have before Him, that, if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
And if we know that He hears us [in] whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not [leading] to death, he shall ask and [God] will for him give life to those who commit sin not [leading] to death. There is a sin [leading] to death; I do not say that he should make request for this.
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not [leading] to death.
We know that no one who is born of God sins; but He who was born of God keeps him and the evil one does not touch him.
We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in [the power of] the evil one.
And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us understanding, in order that we might know Him who is true, and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
Little children, guard yourselves from idols.
