And six days later Jesus *took with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and *brought them up to a high mountain by themselves.
And He was transfigured before them; and His face shone like the sun, and His garments became as white as light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him.
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, "Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You wish, I will make three tabernacles here, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah."
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them; and behold, a voice out of the cloud, saying, "This is My beloved Son, with whom I am well-pleased; listen to Him!"
And when the disciples heard [this,] they fell on their faces and were much afraid.
And Jesus came to [them] and touched them and said, "Arise, and do not be afraid."
And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus Himself alone.
And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, "Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man has risen from the dead."
And His disciples asked Him, saying, "Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"
And He answered and said, "Elijah is coming and will restore all things;
but I say to you, that Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished. So also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands. "
Then the disciples understood that He had spoken to them about John the Baptist.
And when they came to the multitude, a man came up to Him, falling on his knees before Him, and saying,
"Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic, and is very ill; for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.
"And I brought him to Your disciples, and they could not cure him."
And Jesus answered and said, "O unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him here to Me."
And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was cured at once.
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
And He *said to them, "Because of the littleness of your faith; for truly I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it shall move; and nothing shall be impossible to you.
["But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting."]
And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men;
and they will kill Him, and He will be raised on the third day. "And they were deeply grieved.
And when they had come to Capernaum, those who collected the two-drachma [tax] came to Peter, and said, "Does your teacher not pay the two-drachma [tax]?"
He *said, "Yes." And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect customs or poll-tax, from their sons or from strangers?"
And upon his saying, "From strangers," Jesus said to him, "Consequently the sons are exempt.
"But, lest we give them offense, go to the sea, and throw in a hook, and take the first fish that comes up; and when you open its mouth, you will find a stater. Take that and give it to them for you and Me."
