At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the news about Jesus,
and said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead; and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him."
For when Herod had John arrested, he bound him, and put him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip.
For John had been saying to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."
And although he wanted to put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they regarded him as a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before [them] and pleased Herod.
Thereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.
And having been prompted by her mother, she *said, "Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist."
And although he was grieved, the king commanded [it] to be given because of his oaths, and because of his dinner guests.
And he sent and had John beheaded in the prison.
And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl; and she brought [it] to her mother.
And his disciples came and took away the body and buried it; and they went and reported to Jesus.
Now when Jesus heard [it,] He withdrew from there in a boat, to a lonely place by Himself; and when the multitudes heard [of this,] they followed Him on foot from the cities.
And when He went ashore, He saw a great multitude, and felt compassion for them, and healed their sick.
And when it was evening, the disciples came to Him, saying, "The place is desolate, and the time is already past; so send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves."
But Jesus said to them, "They do not need to go away; you give them [something] to eat!"
And they *said to Him, "We have here only five loaves and two fish."
And He said, "Bring them here to Me."
And ordering the multitudes to recline on the grass, He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up toward heaven, He blessed [the food,] and breaking the loaves He gave them to the disciples, and the disciples [gave] to the multitudes,
and they all ate, and were satisfied. And they picked up what was left over of the broken pieces, twelve full baskets.
And there were about five thousand men who ate, aside from women and children.
And immediately He made the disciples get into the boat, and go ahead of Him to the other side, while He sent the multitudes away.
And after He had sent the multitudes away, He went up to the mountain by Himself to pray; and when it was evening, He was there alone.
But the boat was already many stadia away from the land, battered by the waves; for the wind was contrary.
And in the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea.
And when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were frightened, saying, "It is a ghost!" And they cried out for fear.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, "Take courage, it is I; do not be afraid."
And Peter answered Him and said, "Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the water."
And He said, "Come!" And Peter got out of the boat, and walked on the water and came toward Jesus.
But seeing the wind, he became afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, "Lord, save me!"
And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and took hold of him, and *said to him, "O you of little faith, why did you doubt?"
And when they got into the boat, the wind stopped.
And those who were in the boat worshiped Him, saying, "You are certainly God's Son!"
And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret.
And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent into all that surrounding district and brought to Him all who were sick;
and they [began] to entreat Him that they might just touch the fringe of His cloak; and as many as touched [it] were cured.
