And it came about that when Jesus had finished all these words, He said to His disciples,
"You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man is [to be] delivered up for crucifixion."
Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high priest, named Caiaphas;
and they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth, and kill [Him.]
But they were saying, "Not during the festival, lest a riot occur among the people."
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, at the home of Simon the leper,
a woman came to Him with an alabaster vial of very costly perfume, and she poured it upon His head as He reclined [at the table.]
But the disciples were indignant when they saw [this,] and said, "Why this waste?
"For this [perfume] might have been sold for a high price and [the money] given to the poor."
But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why do you bother the woman? For she has done a good deed to Me.
"For the poor you have with you always; but you do not always have Me.
"For when she poured this perfume upon My body, she did it to prepare Me for burial.
"Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be spoken of in memory of her."
Then one of the twelve, named Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,
and said, "What are you willing to give me to deliver Him up to you?" And they weighed out to him thirty pieces of silver.
And from then on he [began] looking for a good opportunity to betray Him.
Now on the first [day] of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Where do You want us to prepare for You to eat the Passover?"
And He said, "Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, 'The Teacher says," My time is at hand; I [am to] keep the Passover at your house with My disciples. "'"
And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them; and they prepared the Passover.
Now when evening had come, He was reclining [at the table] with the twelve disciples.
And as they were eating, He said, "Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me."
And being deeply grieved, they each one began to say to Him, "Surely not I, Lord?"
And He answered and said, "He who dipped his hand with Me in the bowl is the one who will betray Me.
"The Son of Man [is to] go, just as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born."
And Judas, who was betraying Him, answered and said, "Surely it is not I, Rabbi?" He *said to him, "You have said [it] yourself."
And while they were eating, Jesus took [some] bread, and after a blessing, He broke [it] and gave [it] to the disciples, and said, "Take, eat; this is My body."
And when He had taken a cup and given thanks, He gave [it] to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you;
for this is My blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for forgiveness of sins.
"But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in My Father's kingdom."
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus *said to them, "You will all fall away because of Me this night, for it is written, 'I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered.'
"But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee."
But Peter answered and said to Him, ["Even] though all may fall away because of You, I will never fall away."
Jesus said to him, "Truly I say to you that this [very] night, before a cock crows, you shall deny Me three times."
Peter *said to Him, "Even if I have to die with You, I will not deny You." All the disciples said the same thing too.
Then Jesus *came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and * said to His disciples, "Sit here while I go over there and pray."
And He took with Him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be grieved and distressed.
Then He *said to them, "My soul is deeply grieved, to the point of death; remain here and keep watch with Me."
And He went a little beyond [them,] and fell on His face and prayed, saying, "My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; yet not as I will, but as Thou wilt."
And He *came to the disciples and *found them sleeping, and *said to Peter, "So, you [men] could not keep watch with Me for one hour?
"Keep watching and praying, that you may not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."
He went away again a second time and prayed, saying, "My Father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, Thy will be done."
And again He came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
And He left them again, and went away and prayed a third time, saying the same thing once more.
Then He *came to the disciples, and *said to them, "Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? Behold, the hour is at hand and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners.
"Arise, let us be going; behold, the one who betrays Me is at hand!"
And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came up, accompanied by a great multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
Now he who was betraying Him gave them a sign, saying, "Whomever I shall kiss, He is the one; seize Him."
And immediately he went to Jesus and said, "Hail, Rabbi!" and kissed Him.
And Jesus said to him, "Friend, [do] what you have come for." Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized Him.
And behold, one of those who were with Jesus reached and drew out his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
Then Jesus *said to him, "Put your sword back into its place; for all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword.
"Or do you think that I cannot appeal to My Father, and He will at once put at My disposal more than twelve legions of angels?
"How then shall the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must happen this way?"
At that time Jesus said to the multitudes, "Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest Me as against a robber? Every day I used to sit in the temple teaching and you did not seize Me.
"But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled." Then all the disciples left Him and fled.
And those who had seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together.
But Peter also was following Him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and entered in, and sat down with the officers to see the outcome.
Now the chief priests and the whole Council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus, in order that they might put Him to death;
and they did not find [any,] even though many false witnesses came forward. But later on two came forward,
and said, "This man stated, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days.'"
And the high priest stood up and said to Him, "Do You make no answer? What is it that these men are testifying against You?"
But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest said to Him, "I adjure You by the living God, that You tell us whether You are the Christ, the Son of God."
Jesus *said to him, "You have said it [yourself]; nevertheless I tell you, hereafter you shall see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven."
Then the high priest tore his robes, saying, "He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy;
what do you think? "They answered and said," He is deserving of death! "
Then they spat in His face and beat Him with their fists; and others slapped Him,
and said, "Prophesy to us, You Christ; who is the one who hit You?"
Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a certain servant-girl came to him and said, "You too were with Jesus the Galilean."
But he denied [it] before them all, saying, "I do not know what you are talking about."
And when he had gone out to the gateway, another [servant-girl] saw him and *said to those who were there, "This man was with Jesus of Nazareth."
And again he denied [it] with an oath, "I do not know the man."
And a little later the bystanders came up and said to Peter, "Surely you too are [one] of them; for the way you talk gives you away."
Then he began to curse and swear, "I do not know the man!" And immediately a cock crowed.
And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, "Before a cock crows, you will deny Me three times." And he went out and wept bitterly.
