"Then the kingdom of heaven will be comparable to ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet the bridegroom.
"And five of them were foolish, and five were prudent.
"For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them,
but the prudent took oil in flasks along with their lamps.
"Now while the bridegroom was delaying, they all got drowsy and [began] to sleep.
"But at midnight there was a shout, 'Behold, the bridegroom! Come out to meet [him.']
"Then all those virgins rose, and trimmed their lamps.
"And the foolish said to the prudent, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.'
"But the prudent answered, saying, 'No, there will not be enough for us and you [too;] go instead to the dealers and buy [some] for yourselves.'
"And while they were going away to make the purchase, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast; and the door was shut.
"And later the other virgins also came, saying, 'Lord, lord, open up for us.'
"But he answered and said, 'Truly I say to you, I do not know you.'
"Be on the alert then, for you do not know the day nor the hour.
"For [it is] just like a man [about] to go on a journey, who called his own slaves, and entrusted his possessions to them.
"And to one he gave five talents, to another, two, and to another, one, each according to his own ability; and he went on his journey.
"Immediately the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them, and gained five more talents.
"In the same manner the one who [had received] the two [talents] gained two more.
"But he who received the one [talent] went away and dug in the ground, and hid his master's money.
"Now after a long time the master of those slaves *came and * settled accounts with them.
"And the one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, 'Master, you entrusted five talents to me; see, I have gained five more talents.'
"His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful slave; you were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things, enter into the joy of your master.'
"The one also who [had received] the two talents came up and said, 'Master, you entrusted to me two talents; see, I have gained two more talents.'
"His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful slave; you were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things; enter into the joy of your master.'
"And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, 'Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no [seed.]
'And I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the ground; see, you have what is yours.'
"But his master answered and said to him, 'You wicked, lazy slave, you knew that I reap where I did not sow, and gather where I scattered no [seed.]
'Then you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my [money] back with interest.
'Therefore take away the talent from him, and give it to the one who has the ten talents.'
"For to everyone who has shall [more] be given, and he shall have an abundance; but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away.
"And cast out the worthless slave into the outer darkness; in that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
"But when the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the angels with Him, then He will sit on His glorious throne.
"And all the nations will be gathered before Him; and He will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats;
and He will put the sheep on His right, and the goats on the left.
"Then the King will say to those on His right, 'Come, you who are blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
'For I was hungry, and you gave Me [something] to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave Me drink; I was a stranger, and you invited Me in;
naked, and you clothed Me; I was sick, and you visited Me; I was in prison, and you came to Me.'
"Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry, and feed You, or thirsty, and give You drink?
'And when did we see You a stranger, and invite You in, or naked, and clothe You?
'And when did we see You sick, or in prison, and come to You?'
"And the King will answer and say to them, 'Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of these brothers of Mine, [even] the least [of them,] you did it to Me.'
"Then He will also say to those on His left, 'Depart from Me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels;
for I was hungry, and you gave Me [nothing] to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave Me nothing to drink;
I was a stranger, and you did not invite Me in; naked, and you did not clothe Me; sick, and in prison, and you did not visit Me.'
"Then they themselves also will answer, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not take care of You?'
"Then He will answer them, saying, 'Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to Me.'
"And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."
