And when He had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed Him.
And behold, a leper came to Him, and bowed down to Him, saying, "Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean."
And He stretched out His hand and touched him, saying, "I am willing; be cleansed." And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus *said to him, "See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and present the offering that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them."
And when He had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, entreating Him,
and saying, "Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering great pain."
And He *said to him, "I will come and heal him."
But the centurion answered and said, "Lord, I am not worthy for You to come under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
"For I, too, am a man under authority, with soldiers under me; and I say to this one, 'Go!' and he goes, and to another, 'Come!' and he comes, and to my slave, 'Do this!' and he does [it]."
Now when Jesus heard [this,] He marveled, and said to those who were following, "Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel.
"And I say to you, that many shall come from east and west, and recline [at the table] with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven;
but the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into the outer darkness; in that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. "
And Jesus said to the centurion, "Go your way; let it be done to you as you have believed." And the servant was healed that [very] hour.
And when Jesus had come to Peter's home, He saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with a fever.
And He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she arose, and waited on Him.
And when evening had come, they brought to Him many who were demon-possessed; and He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were ill
in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "He Himself took our infirmities, and carried away our diseases."
Now when Jesus saw a crowd around Him, He gave orders to depart to the other side.
And a certain scribe came and said to Him, "Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go."
And Jesus *said to him, "The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air [have] nests; but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head."
And another of the disciples said to Him, "Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father."
But Jesus *said to him, "Follow Me; and allow the dead to bury their own dead."
And when He got into the boat, His disciples followed Him.
And behold, there arose a great storm in the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves; but He Himself was asleep.
And they came to [Him,] and awoke Him, saying, "Save [us,] Lord; we are perishing!"
And He *said to them, "Why are you timid, you men of little faith?" Then He arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and it became perfectly calm.
And the men marveled, saying, "What kind of a man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?"
And when He had come to the other side into the country of the Gadarenes, two men who were demon-possessed met Him as they were coming out of the tombs; [they were] so exceedingly violent that no one could pass by that road.
And behold, they cried out, saying, "What do we have to do with You, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?"
Now there was at a distance from them a herd of many swine feeding.
And the demons [began] to entreat Him, saying, "If You are [going to] cast us out, send us into the herd of swine."
And He said to them, "Begone!" And they came out, and went into the swine, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and perished in the waters.
And the herdsmen ran away, and went to the city, and reported everything, including the [incident] of the demoniacs.
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw Him, they entreated [Him] to depart from their region.
