And having summoned His twelve disciples, He gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every kind of disease and every kind of sickness.
Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the [son] of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax-gatherer; James the [son] of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, the one who betrayed Him.
These twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them, saying, "Do not go in [the] way of [the] Gentiles, and do not enter [any] city of the Samaritans;
but rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
"And as you go, preach, saying, 'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'
"Heal [the] sick, raise [the] dead, cleanse [the] lepers, cast out demons; freely you received, freely give.
"Do not acquire gold, or silver, or copper for your money belts,
or a bag for [your] journey, or even two tunics, or sandals, or a staff; for the worker is worthy of his support.
"And into whatever city or village you enter, inquire who is worthy in it; and abide there until you go away.
"And as you enter the house, give it your greeting.
"And if the house is worthy, let your [greeting of] peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, let your [greeting of] peace return to you.
"And whoever does not receive you, nor heed your words, as you go out of that house or that city, shake off the dust of your feet.
"Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for [the] land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.
"Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves; therefore be shrewd as serpents, and innocent as doves.
"But beware of men; for they will deliver you up to [the] courts, and scourge you in their synagogues;
and you shall even be brought before governors and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
"But when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you will speak; for it shall be given you in that hour what you are to speak.
"For it is not you who speak, but [it is] the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
"And brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father [his] child; and children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
"And you will be hated by all on account of My name, but it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved.
"But whenever they persecute you in this city, flee to the next; for truly I say to you, you shall not finish [going through] the cities of Israel, until the Son of Man comes.
"A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master.
"It is enough for the disciple that he become as his teacher, and the slave as his master. If they have called the head of the house Beelzebul, how much more the members of his household!
"Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known.
"What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear [whispered] in [your] ear, proclaim upon the housetops.
"And do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul; but rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
"Are not two sparrows sold for a cent? And [yet] not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father.
"But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
"Therefore do not fear; you are of more value than many sparrows.
"Everyone therefore who shall confess Me before men, I will also confess him before My Father who is in heaven.
"But whoever shall deny Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father who is in heaven.
"Do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth; I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.
"For I came to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;
and a man's enemies will be the members of his household.
"He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me; and he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me.
"And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me.
"He who has found his life shall lose it, and he who has lost his life for My sake shall find it.
"He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
"He who receives a prophet in [the] name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward.
"And whoever in the name of a disciple gives to one of these little ones even a cup of cold water to drink, truly I say to you he shall not lose his reward."
