And Jesus answered and spoke to them again in parables, saying,
"The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king, who gave a wedding feast for his son.
"And he sent out his slaves to call those who had been invited to the wedding feast, and they were unwilling to come.
"Again he sent out other slaves saying, 'Tell those who have been invited," Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fattened livestock are [all] butchered and everything is ready; come to the wedding feast. "'
"But they paid no attention and went their way, one to his own farm, another to his business,
and the rest seized his slaves and mistreated them and killed them.
"But the king was enraged and sent his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and set their city on fire.
"Then he *said to his slaves, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy.
'Go therefore to the main highways, and as many as you find [there,] invite to the wedding feast.'
"And those slaves went out into the streets, and gathered together all they found, both evil and good; and the wedding hall was filled with dinner guests.
"But when the king came in to look over the dinner guests, he saw there a man not dressed in wedding clothes,
and he *said to him,' Friend, how did you come in here without wedding clothes?' And he was speechless.
"Then the king said to the servants, 'Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness; in that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'
"For many are called, but few [are] chosen."
Then the Pharisees went and counseled together how they might trap Him in what He said.
And they *sent their disciples to Him, along with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that You are truthful and teach the way of God in truth, and defer to no one; for You are not partial to any.
"Tell us therefore, what do You think? Is it lawful to give a poll-tax to Caesar, or not?"
But Jesus perceived their malice, and said, "Why are you testing Me, you hypocrites?
"Show Me the coin [used] for the poll-tax." And they brought Him a denarius.
And He *said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?"
They *said to Him, "Caesar's." Then He *said to them, "Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's; and to God the things that are God's."
And hearing [this,] they marveled, and leaving Him, they went away.
On that day [some] Sadducees (who say there is no resurrection) came to Him and questioned Him,
saying, "Teacher, Moses said, 'If a man dies, having no children, his brother as next of kin shall marry his wife, and raise up an offspring to his brother.'
"Now there were seven brothers with us; and the first married and died, and having no offspring left his wife to his brother;
so also the second, and the third, down to the seventh.
"And last of all, the woman died.
"In the resurrection therefore whose wife of the seven shall she be? For they all had her."
But Jesus answered and said to them, "You are mistaken, not understanding the Scriptures, or the power of God.
"For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
"But regarding the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? He is not the God of the dead but of the living. "
And when the multitudes heard [this,] they were astonished at His teaching.
But when the Pharisees heard that He had put the Sadducees to silence, they gathered themselves together.
And one of them, a lawyer, asked Him [a question,] testing Him,
"Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?"
And He said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.'
"This is the great and foremost commandment.
"The second is like it, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'
"On these two commandments depend the whole Law and the Prophets."
Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
saying, "What do you think about the Christ, whose son is He?" They* said to Him, "[The son] of David."
He *said to them, "Then how does David in the Spirit call Him 'Lord,' saying,
'The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit at My right hand, Until I put Thine enemies beneath Thy feet"'?
"If David then calls Him 'Lord,' how is He his son?"
And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask Him another question.
