At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath through the grainfields, and His disciples became hungry and began to pick the heads [of grain] and eat.
But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to Him, "Behold, Your disciples do what is not lawful to do on a Sabbath."
But He said to them, "Have you not read what David did, when he became hungry, he and his companions;
how he entered the house of God, and they ate the consecrated bread, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those with him, but for the priests alone?
"Or have you not read in the Law, that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath, and are innocent?
"But I say to you, that something greater than the temple is here.
"But if you had known what this means, 'I desire compassion, and not a sacrifice,' you would not have condemned the innocent.
"For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath."
And departing from there, He went into their synagogue.
And behold, [there was] a man with a withered hand. And they questioned Him, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?"-- in order that they might accuse Him.
And He said to them, "What man shall there be among you, who shall have one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will he not take hold of it, and lift it out?
"Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! So then, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath."
Then He *said to the man, "Stretch out your hand!" And he stretched it out, and it was restored to normal, like the other.
But the Pharisees went out, and counseled together against Him, [as to] how they might destroy Him.
But Jesus, aware of [this,] withdrew from there. And many followed Him, and He healed them all,
and warned them not to make Him known,
in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, might be fulfilled, saying,
"Behold, My Servant whom I have chosen; My Beloved in whom My soul is well-pleased; I will put My Spirit upon Him, And He shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles.
"He will not quarrel, nor cry out; Nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets.
"A battered reed He will not break off, And a smoldering wick He will not put out, Until He leads justice to victory.
"And in His name the Gentiles will hope."
Then there was brought to Him a demon-possessed man [who was] blind and dumb, and He healed him, so that the dumb man spoke and saw.
And all the multitudes were amazed, and [began] to say, "This [man] cannot be the Son of David, can he?"
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, "This man casts out demons only by Beelzebul the ruler of the demons."
And knowing their thoughts He said to them, "Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste; and any city or house divided against itself shall not stand.
"And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself; how then shall his kingdom stand?
"And if I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? Consequently they shall be your judges.
"But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
"Or how can anyone enter the strong man's house and carry off his property, unless he first binds the strong [man]? And then he will plunder his house.
"He who is not with Me is against Me; and he who does not gather with Me scatters.
"Therefore I say to you, any sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven.
"And whoever shall speak a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him; but whoever shall speak against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, either in this age, or in the [age] to come.
"Either make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree bad, and its fruit bad; for the tree is known by its fruit.
"You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart.
"The good man out of [his] good treasure brings forth what is good; and the evil man out of [his] evil treasure brings forth what is evil.
"And I say to you, that every careless word that men shall speak, they shall render account for it in the day of judgment.
"For by your words you shall be justified, and by your words you shall be condemned."
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Him, saying, "Teacher, we want to see a sign from You."
But He answered and said to them, "An evil and adulterous generation craves for a sign; and [yet] no sign shall be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet;
for just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
"The men of Nineveh shall stand up with this generation at the judgment, and shall condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
"[The] Queen of [the] South shall rise up with this generation at the judgment and shall condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
"Now when the unclean spirit goes out of a man, it passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and does not find [it.]
"Then it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came'; and when it comes, it finds it unoccupied, swept, and put in order.
"Then it goes, and takes along with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there; and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. That is the way it will also be with this evil generation."
While He was still speaking to the multitudes, behold, His mother and brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak to Him.
And someone said to Him, "Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak to You."
But He answered the one who was telling Him and said, "Who is My mother and who are My brothers?"
And stretching out His hand toward His disciples, He said, "Behold, My mother and My brothers!
"For whoever does the will of My Father who is in heaven, he is My brother and sister and mother."
