"For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
"And when he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius for the day, he sent them into his vineyard.
"And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the market place;
and to those he said,' You too go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you.' And [so] they went.
"Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour, and did the same thing.
"And about the eleventh [hour] he went out, and found others standing; and he *said to them, 'Why have you been standing here idle all day long?'
"They *said to him, 'Because no one hired us.' He *said to them, 'You too go into the vineyard.'
"And when evening had come, the owner of the vineyard *said to his foreman, 'Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last [group] to the first.'
"And when those [hired] about the eleventh hour came, each one received a denarius.
"And when those [hired] first came, they thought that they would receive more; and they also received each one a denarius.
"And when they received it, they grumbled at the landowner,
saying,' These last men have worked [only] one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden and the scorching heat of the day.'
"But he answered and said to one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong; did you not agree with me for a denarius?
'Take what is yours and go your way, but I wish to give to this last man the same as to you.
'Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous?'
"Thus the last shall be first, and the first last."
And as Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve [disciples] aside by themselves, and on the way He said to them,
"Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem; and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn Him to death,
and will deliver Him to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify [Him,] and on the third day He will be raised up. "
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Him with her sons, bowing down, and making a request of Him.
And He said to her, "What do you wish?" She *said to Him, "Command that in Your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit, one on Your right and one on Your left."
But Jesus answered and said, "You do not know what you are asking for. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink?" They *said to Him, "We are able."
He *said to them, "My cup you shall drink; but to sit on My right and on [My] left, this is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by My Father."
And hearing [this,] the ten became indignant with the two brothers.
But Jesus called them to Himself, and said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and [their] great men exercise authority over them.
"It is not so among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant,
and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave;
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many. "
And as they were going out from Jericho, a great multitude followed Him.
And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
And the multitude sternly told them to be quiet; but they cried out all the more, saying, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
And Jesus stopped and called them, and said, "What do you want Me to do for you?"
They *said to Him, "Lord, [we want] our eyes to be opened."
And moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes; and immediately they regained their sight and followed Him.
