Ask rain from the Lord at the time of the spring rain-- The Lord who makes the storm clouds; And He will give them showers of rain, vegetation in the field to [each] man.
For the teraphim speak iniquity, And the diviners see lying visions, And tell false dreams; They comfort in vain. Therefore [the people] wander like sheep, They are afflicted, because there is no shepherd.
"My anger is kindled against the shepherds, And I will punish the male goats; For the Lord of hosts has visited His flock, the house of Judah, And will make them like His majestic horse in battle.
"From them will come the cornerstone, From them the tent peg, From them the bow of battle, From them every ruler, [all] of them together.
"And they will be as mighty men, Treading down [the enemy] in the mire of the streets in battle; And they will fight, for the Lord [will be] with them; And the riders on horses will be put to shame.
"And I shall strengthen the house of Judah, And I shall save the house of Joseph, And I shall bring them back, Because I have had compassion on them; And they will be as though I had not rejected them, For I am the Lord their God, and I will answer them.
"And Ephraim will be like a mighty man, And their heart will be glad as if [from] wine; Indeed, their children will see [it] and be glad, Their heart will rejoice in the Lord.
"I will whistle for them to gather them together, For I have redeemed them; And they will be as numerous as they were before.
"When I scatter them among the peoples, They will remember Me in far countries, And they with their children will live and come back.
"I will bring them back from the land of Egypt, And gather them from Assyria; And I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon, Until no [room] can be found for them.
"And He will pass through the sea [of] distress, And strike the waves in the sea, So that all the depths of the Nile will dry up; And the pride of Assyria will be brought down, And the scepter of Egypt will depart.
"And I shall strengthen them in the Lord, And in His name they will walk," declares the Lord.
