Now after this it came about that David defeated the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines.
And he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute.
David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah [as far as] Hamath, as he went to establish his rule to the Euphrates River.
And David took from him 1,000 chariots and 7,000 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers, and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved [enough] of them for 100 chariots.
When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 men of the Arameans.
Then David put [garrisons] among the Arameans of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And the Lord helped David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
Also from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the bronze utensils.
Now when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah,
he sent Hadoram his son to King David, to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And [Hadoram brought] all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze.
King David also dedicated these to the Lord with the silver and the gold which he had carried away from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and from Amalek.
Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah defeated 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the Lord helped David wherever he went.
So David reigned over all Israel; and he administered justice and righteousness for all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah [was] over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud [was] recorder;
and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar [were] priests, and Shavsha [was] secretary;
and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada [was] over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David [were] chiefs at the king's side.
