And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord.
And he distributed to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread and a portion [of meat] and a raisin cake.
And he appointed some of the Levites [as] ministers before the ark of the Lord, even to celebrate and to thank and praise the Lord God of Israel:
Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, [then] Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with musical instruments, harps, lyres; also Asaph [played] loud-sounding cymbals,
and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests [blew] trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
Then on that day David first assigned Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to the Lord.
Oh give thanks to the Lord, call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples.
Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Speak of all His wonders.
Glory in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek the Lord be glad.
Seek the Lord and His strength; Seek His face continually.
Remember His wonderful deeds which He has done, His marvels and the judgments from His mouth,
O seed of Israel His servant, Sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!
He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
Remember His covenant forever, The word which He commanded to a thousand generations,
[The covenant] which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac.
He also confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant,
Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, As the portion of your inheritance."
When they were only a few in number, Very few, and strangers in it,
And they wandered about from nation to nation, And from [one] kingdom to another people,
He permitted no man to oppress them, And He reproved kings for their sakes, [saying,]
"Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm."
Sing to the Lord, all the earth; Proclaim good tidings of His salvation from day to day.
Tell of His glory among the nations, His wonderful deeds among all the peoples.
For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised; He also is to be feared above all gods.
For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But the Lord made the heavens.
Splendor and majesty are before Him, Strength and joy are in His place.
Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength.
Ascribe to the Lord the glory due His name; Bring an offering, and come before Him; Worship the Lord in holy array.
Tremble before Him, all the earth; Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved.
Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, "The Lord reigns."
Let the sea roar, and all it contains; Let the field exult, and all that is in it.
Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the Lord; For He is coming to judge the earth.
O give thanks to the Lord, for [He is] good; For His lovingkindness is everlasting.
Then say, "Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us and deliver us from the nations, To give thanks to Thy holy name, And glory in Thy praise."
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting. Then all the people said, "Amen," and praised the Lord.
So he left Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required;
and Obed-edom with his 68 relatives; Obed-edom, also the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah as gatekeepers.
And [he left] Zadok the priest and his relatives the priests before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place which [was] at Gibeon,
to offer burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of the Lord, which He commanded Israel.
And with them [were] Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were designated by name, to give thanks to the Lord, because His lovingkindness is everlasting.
And with them [were] Heman and Jeduthun [with] trumpets and cymbals for those who should sound aloud, and [with] instruments [for] the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun for the gate.
Then all the people departed each to his house, and David returned to bless his household.
