Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; For His lovingkindness is everlasting.
Oh let Israel say, "His lovingkindness is everlasting."
Oh let the house of Aaron say, "His lovingkindness is everlasting."
Oh let those who fear the Lord say, "His lovingkindness is everlasting."
From [my] distress I called upon the Lord; The Lord answered me [and set me] in a large place.
The Lord is for me; I will not fear; What can man do to me?
The Lord is for me among those who help me; Therefore I shall look [with satisfaction] on those who hate me.
It is better to take refuge in the Lord Than to trust in man.
It is better to take refuge in the Lord Than to trust in princes.
Allnations surrounded me; In the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off.
They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me; In the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off.
They surrounded me like bees; They were extinguished as a fire of thorns; In the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off.
You pushed me violently so that I was falling, But the Lord helped me.
The Lord is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation.
The sound of joyful shouting and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the Lord does valiantly.
The right hand of the Lord is exalted; The right hand of the Lord does valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, And tell of the works of the Lord.
The Lord has disciplined me severely, But He has not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness; I shall enter through them, I shall give thanks to the Lord.
This is the gate of the Lord; The righteous will enter through it.
I shall give thanks to Thee, for Thou hast answered me; And Thou hast become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief corner [stone.]
This is the Lord's doing; It is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day which the Lord has made; Let us rejoice and be glad in it.
O Lord, do save, we beseech Thee; O Lord, we beseech Thee, do send prosperity!
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord; We have blessed you from the house of the Lord.
The Lord is God, and He has given us light; Bind the festival sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar.
Thou art my God, and I give thanks to Thee; [Thou art] my God, I extol Thee.
Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; For His lovingkindness is everlasting.
