(For the choir director. A Psalm of David.) O God of my praise, Do not be silent!
For they have opened the wicked and deceitful mouth against me; They have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And fought against me without cause.
In return for my love they act as my accusers; But I am [in] prayer.
Thus they have repaid me evil for good, And hatred for my love.
Appoint a wicked man over him; And let an accuser stand at his right hand.
When he is judged, let him come forth guilty; And let his prayer become sin.
Let his days be few; Let another take his office.
Let his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow.
Let his children wander about and beg; And let them seek [sustenance] far from their ruined homes.
Let the creditor seize all that he has; And let strangers plunder the product of his labor.
Let there be none to extend lovingkindness to him, Nor any to be gracious to his fatherless children.
Let his posterity be cut off; In a following generation let their name be blotted out.
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord, And do not let the sin of his mother be blotted out.
Let them be before the Lord continually, That He may cut off their memory from the earth;
Because he did not remember to show lovingkindness, But persecuted the afflicted and needy man, And the despondent in heart, to put [them] to death.
He also loved cursing, so it came to him; And he did not delight in blessing, so it was far from him.
But he clothed himself with cursing as with his garment, And it entered into his body like water, And like oil into his bones.
Let it be to him as a garment with which he covers himself, And for a belt with which he constantly girds himself.
Let this be the reward of my accusers from the Lord, And of those who speak evil against my soul.
But Thou, O God, the Lord, deal [kindly] with me for Thy name's sake; Because Thy lovingkindness is good, deliver me;
For I am afflicted and needy, And my heart is wounded within me.
I am passing like a shadow when it lengthens; I am shaken off like the locust.
My knees are weak from fasting; And my flesh has grown lean, without fatness.
I also have become a reproach to them; When they see me, they wag their head.
Help me, O Lord my God; Save me according to Thy lovingkindness.
And let them know that this is Thy hand; Thou, Lord, hast done it.
Let them curse, but do Thou bless; When they arise, they shall be ashamed, But Thy servant shall be glad.
Let my accusers be clothed with dishonor, And let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.
With my mouth I will give thanks abundantly to the Lord; And in the midst of many I will praise Him.
For He stands at the right hand of the needy, To save him from those who judge his soul.
