(For the choir director. A Psalm of David.) O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known [me.]
Thou dost know when I sit down and when I rise up; Thou dost understand my thought from afar.
Thou dost scrutinize my path and my lying down, And art intimately acquainted with all my ways.
Even before there is a word on my tongue, Behold, O Lord, Thou dost know it all.
Thou hast enclosed me behind and before, And laid Thy hand upon me.
[Such] knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is [too] high, I cannot attain to it.
Where can I go from Thy Spirit? Or where can I flee from Thy presence?
If I ascend to heaven, Thou art there; If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, Thou art there.
If I take the wings of the dawn, If I dwell in the remotest part of the sea,
Even there Thy hand will lead me, And Thy right hand will lay hold of me.
If I say, "Surely the darkness will overwhelm me, And the light around me will be night,"
Even the darkness is not dark to Thee, And the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike [to Thee.]
For Thou didst form my inward parts; Thou didst weave me in my mother's womb.
I will give thanks to Thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Wonderful are Thy works, And my soul knows it very well.
My frame was not hidden from Thee, When I was made in secret, [And] skillfully wrought in the depths of the earth.
Thine eyes have seen my unformed substance; And in Thy book they were all written, The days that were ordained [for me], When as yet there was not one of them.
How precious also are Thy thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with Thee.
O that Thou wouldst slay the wicked, O God; Depart from me, therefore, men of bloodshed.
For they speak against Thee wickedly, And Thine enemies take [Thy name] in vain.
Do I not hate those who hate Thee, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against Thee?
I hate them with the utmost hatred; They have become my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me and know my anxious thoughts;
And see if there be any hurtful way in me, And lead me in the everlasting way.
