(For the choir director. A Psalm of David.) I waited patiently for the Lord; And He inclined to me, and heard my cry.
He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay; And He set my feet upon a rock making my footsteps firm.
And He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God; Many will see and fear, And will trust in the Lord.
How blessed is the man who has made the Lord his trust, And has not turned to the proud, nor to those who lapse into falsehood.
Many, O Lord my God, are the wonders which Thou hast done, And Thy thoughts toward us; There is none to compare with Thee; If I would declare and speak of them, They would be too numerous to count.
Sacrifice and meal offering Thou hast not desired; My ears Thou hast opened; Burnt offering and sin offering Thou hast not required.
Then I said, "Behold, I come; In the scroll of the book it is written of me;
I delight to do Thy will, O my God; Thy Law is within my heart. "
I have proclaimed glad tidings of righteousness in the great congregation; Behold, I will not restrain my lips, O Lord, Thou knowest.
I have not hidden Thy righteousness within my heart; I have spoken of Thy faithfulness and Thy salvation; I have not concealed Thy lovingkindness and Thy truth from the great congregation.
Thou, O Lord, wilt not withhold Thy compassion from me; Thy lovingkindness and Thy truth will continually preserve me.
For evils beyond number have surrounded me; My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to see; They are more numerous than the hairs of my head; And my heart has failed me.
Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; Make haste, O Lord, to help me.
Let those be ashamed and humiliated together Who seek my life to destroy it; Let those be turned back and dishonored Who delight in my hurt.
Let those be appalled because of their shame Who say to me, "Aha, aha!"
Let all who seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee; Let those who love Thy salvation say continually, "The Lord be magnified!"
Since I am afflicted and needy, Let the Lord be mindful of me; Thou art my help and my deliverer; Do not delay, O my God.

