Oh give thanks to the Lord, call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples.
Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Speak of all His wonders.
Glory in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek the Lord be glad.
Seek the Lord and His strength; Seek His face continually.
Remember His wonders which He has done, His marvels, and the judgments uttered by His mouth,
O seed of Abraham, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!
He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
He has remembered His covenant forever, The word which He commanded to a thousand generations,
[The covenant] which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac.
Then He confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant,
Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan As the portion of your inheritance,"
When they were only a few men in number, Very few, and strangers in it.
And they wandered about from nation to nation, From [one] kingdom to another people.
He permitted no man to oppress them, And He reproved kings for their sakes:
"Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm."
And He called for a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.
He sent a man before them, Joseph, [who] was sold as a slave.
They afflicted his feet with fetters, He himself was laid in irons;
Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the Lord tested him.
The king sent and released him, The ruler of peoples, and set him free.
He made him lord of his house, And ruler over all his possessions,
To imprison his princes at will, That he might teach his elders wisdom.
Israel also came into Egypt; Thus Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
And He caused His people to be very fruitful, And made them stronger than their adversaries.
He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants.
He sent Moses His servant, [And] Aaron whom He had chosen.
They performed His wondrous acts among them, And miracles in the land of Ham.
He sent darkness and made [it] dark; And they did not rebel against His words.
He turned their waters into blood, And caused their fish to die.
Their land swarmed with frogs [Even] in the chambers of their kings.
He spoke, and there came a swarm of flies [And] gnats in all their territory.
He gave them hail for rain, [And] flaming fire in their land.
He struck down their vines also and their fig trees, And shattered the trees of their territory.
He spoke, and locusts came, And young locusts, even without number,
And ate up all vegetation in their land, And ate up the fruit of their ground.
He also struck down all the first-born in their land, The first fruits of all their vigor.
Then He brought them out with silver and gold; And among His tribes there was not one who stumbled.
Egypt was glad when they departed; For the dread of them had fallen upon them.
He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to illumine by night.
They asked, and He brought quail, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven.
He opened the rock, and water flowed out; It ran in the dry places [like] a river.
For He remembered His holy word [With] Abraham His servant;
And He brought forth His people with joy, His chosen ones with a joyful shout.
He gave them also the lands of the nations, That they might take possession of [the fruit of] the peoples' labor,
So that they might keep His statutes, And observe His laws, Praise the Lord!
