(For the choir director; according to Shoshannim. [A Psalm] of David.) Save me, O God, For the waters have threatened my life.
I have sunk in deep mire, and there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and a flood overflows me.
I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; My eyes fail while I wait for my God.
Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; Those who would destroy me are powerful, being wrongfully my enemies, What I did not steal, I then have to restore.
O God, it is Thou who dost know my folly, And my wrongs are not hidden from Thee.
May those who wait for Thee not be ashamed through me, O Lord God of hosts; May those who seek Thee not be dishonored through me, O God of Israel,
Because for Thy sake I have borne reproach; Dishonor has covered my face.
I have become estranged from my brothers, And an alien to my mother's sons.
For zeal for Thy house has consumed me, And the reproaches of those who reproach Thee have fallen on me.
When I wept in my soul with fasting, It became my reproach.
When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
Those who sit in the gate talk about me, And I [am] the song of the drunkards.
But as for me, my prayer is to Thee, O Lord, at an acceptable time; O God, in the greatness of Thy lovingkindness, Answer me with Thy saving truth.
Deliver me from the mire, and do not let me sink; May I be delivered from my foes, and from the deep waters.
May the flood of water not overflow me, And may the deep not swallow me up, And may the pit not shut its mouth on me.
Answer me, O Lord, for Thy lovingkindness is good; According to the greatness of Thy compassion, turn to me,
And do not hide Thy face from Thy servant, For I am in distress; answer me quickly.
Oh draw near to my soul [and] redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies!
Thou dost know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor; All my adversaries are before Thee.
Reproach has broken my heart, and I am so sick. And I looked for sympathy, but there was none, And for comforters, but I found none.
They also gave me gall for my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
May their table before them become a snare; And when they are in peace, [may it become] a trap.
May their eyes grow dim so that they cannot see, And make their loins shake continually.
Pour out Thine indignation on them, And may Thy burning anger overtake them.
May their camp be desolate; May none dwell in their tents.
For they have persecuted him whom Thou Thyself hast smitten, And they tell of the pain of those whom Thou hast wounded.
Do Thou add iniquity to their iniquity, And may they not come into Thy righteousness.
May they be blotted out of the book of life, And may they not be recorded with the righteous.
But I am afflicted and in pain; May Thy salvation, O God, set me [securely] on high.
I will praise the name of God with song, And shall magnify Him with thanksgiving.
And it will please the Lord better than an ox [Or] a young bull with horns and hoofs.
The humble have seen [it and] are glad; You who seek God, let your heart revive.
For the Lord hears the needy, And does not despise His [who are] prisoners.
Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them.
For God will save Zion and build the cities of Judah, That they may dwell there and possess it.
And the descendants of His servants will inherit it, And those who love His name will dwell in it.

