In Thee, O Lord, I have taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed.
In Thy righteousness deliver me, and rescue me; Incline Thine ear to me, and save me.
Be Thou to me a rock of habitation, to which I may continually come; Thou hast given commandment to save me, For Thou art my rock and my fortress.
Rescue me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the grasp of the wrongdoer and ruthless man,
For Thou art my hope; O Lord God, [Thou art] my confidence from my youth.
By Thee I have been sustained from [my] birth; Thou art He who took me from my mother's womb; My praise is continually of Thee.
I have become a marvel to many; For Thou art my strong refuge.
My mouth is filled with Thy praise, And with Thy glory all day long.
Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails.
For my enemies have spoken against me; And those who watch for my life have consulted together,
Saying, "God has forsaken him; Pursue and seize him, for there is no one to deliver."
O God, do not be far from me; O my God, hasten to my help!
Let those who are adversaries of my soul be ashamed [and] consumed; Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor, who seek to injure me.
But as for me, I will hope continually, And will praise Thee yet more and more.
My mouth shall tell of Thy righteousness, [And] of Thy salvation all day long; For I do not know the sum [of them.]
I will come with the mighty deeds of the Lord God; I will make mention of Thy righteousness, Thine alone.
O God, Thou hast taught me from my youth; And I still declare Thy wondrous deeds.
And even when [I am] old and gray, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Thy strength to [this] generation, Thy power to all who are to come.
For Thy righteousness, O God, [reaches] to the heavens, Thou who hast done great things; O God, who is like Thee?
Thou, who hast shown me many troubles and distresses, Wilt revive me again, And wilt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
Mayest Thou increase my greatness, And turn [to] comfort me.
I will also praise Thee with a harp, [Even] Thy truth, O my God; To Thee I will sing praises with the lyre, O Thou Holy One of Israel.
My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to Thee; And my soul, which Thou hast redeemed.
My tongue also will utter Thy righteousness all day long; For they are ashamed, for they are humiliated who seek my hurt.
