(For the choir director. A Psalm of David.) In Thee, O Lord, I have taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed; In Thy righteousness deliver me.
Incline Thine ear to me, rescue me quickly; Be Thou to me a rock of strength, A stronghold to save me.
For Thou art my rock and my fortress; For Thy name's sake Thou wilt lead me and guide me.
Thou wilt pull me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me; For Thou art my strength.
Into Thy hand I commit my spirit; Thou hast ransomed me, O Lord, God of truth.
I hate those who regard vain idols; But I trust in the Lord.
I will rejoice and be glad in Thy lovingkindness, Because Thou hast seen my affliction; Thou hast known the troubles of my soul,
And Thou hast not given me over into the hand of the enemy; Thou hast set my feet in a large place.
Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am in distress; My eye is wasted away from grief, my soul and my body [also.]
For my life is spent with sorrow, And my years with sighing; My strength has failed because of my iniquity, And my body has wasted away.
Because of all my adversaries, I have become a reproach, Especially to my neighbors, And an object of dread to my acquaintances; Those who see me in the street flee from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man, out of mind, I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many, Terror is on every side; While they took counsel together against me, They schemed to take away my life.
But as for me, I trust in Thee, O Lord, I say, "Thou art my God."
My times are in Thy hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant; Save me in Thy lovingkindness.
Let me not be put to shame, O Lord, for I call upon Thee; Let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol.
Let the lying lips be dumb, Which speak arrogantly against the righteous With pride and contempt.
How great is Thy goodness, Which Thou hast stored up for those who fear Thee, Which Thou hast wrought for those who take refuge in Thee, Before the sons of men!
Thou dost hide them in the secret place of Thy presence from the conspiracies of man; Thou dost keep them secretly in a shelter from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be the Lord, For He has made marvelous His lovingkindness to me in a besieged city.
As for me, I said in my alarm, "I am cut off from before Thine eyes"; Nevertheless Thou didst hear the voice of my supplications When I cried to Thee.
O love the Lord, all you His godly ones! The Lord preserves the faithful, And fully recompenses the proud doer.
Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All you who hope in the Lord.

