Praise the Lord! Oh give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; For His lovingkindness is everlasting.
Who can speak of the mighty deeds of the Lord, Or can show forth all His praise?
How blessed are those who keep justice, Who practice righteousness at all times!
Remember me, O Lord, in [Thy] favor toward Thy people; Visit me with Thy salvation,
That I may see the prosperity of Thy chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the gladness of Thy nation, That I may glory with Thine inheritance.
We have sinned like our fathers, We have committed iniquity, we have behaved wickedly.
Our fathers in Egypt did not understand Thy wonders; They did not remember Thine abundant kindnesses, But rebelled by the sea, at the Red Sea.
Nevertheless He saved them for the sake of His name, That He might make His power known.
Thus He rebuked the Red Sea and it dried up; And He led them through the deeps, as through the wilderness.
So He saved them from the hand of the one who hated [them,] And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their adversaries; Not one of them was left.
Then they believed His words; They sang His praise.
They quickly forgot His works; They did not wait for His counsel,
But craved intensely in the wilderness, And tempted God in the desert.
So He gave them their request, But sent a wasting disease among them.
When they became envious of Moses in the camp, And of Aaron, the holy one of the Lord,
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And engulfed the company of Abiram.
And a fire blazed up in their company; The flame consumed the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, And worshiped a molten image.
Thus they exchanged their glory For the image of an ox that eats grass.
They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt,
Wonders in the land of Ham, [And] awesome things by the Red Sea.
Therefore He said that He would destroy them, Had not Moses His chosen one stood in the breach before Him, To turn away His wrath from destroying [them.]
Then they despised the pleasant land; They did not believe in His word,
But grumbled in their tents; They did not listen to the voice of the Lord.
Therefore He swore to them, That He would cast them down in the wilderness,
And that He would cast their seed among the nations, And scatter them in the lands.
They joined themselves also to Baal-peor, And ate sacrifices offered to the dead.
Thus they provoked [Him] to anger with their deeds; And the plague broke out among them.
Then Phinehas stood up and interposed; And so the plague was stayed.
And it was reckoned to him for righteousness, To all generations forever.
They also provoked [Him] to wrath at the waters of Meribah, So that it went hard with Moses on their account;
Because they were rebellious against His Spirit, He spoke rashly with his lips.
They did not destroy the peoples, As the Lord commanded them,
But they mingled with the nations, And learned their practices,
And served their idols, Which became a snare to them.
They even sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons,
And shed innocent blood, The blood of their sons and their daughters, Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with the blood.
Thus they became unclean in their practices, And played the harlot in their deeds.
Therefore the anger of the Lord was kindled against His people, And He abhorred His inheritance.
Then He gave them into the hand of the nations; And those who hated them ruled over them.
Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were subdued under their power.
Many times He would deliver them; They, however, were rebellious in their counsel, And [so] sank down in their iniquity.
Nevertheless He looked upon their distress, When He heard their cry;
And He remembered His covenant for their sake, And relented according to the greatness of His lovingkindness.
He also made them [objects] of compassion In the presence of all their captors.
Save us, O Lord our God, And gather us from among the nations, To give thanks to Thy holy name, And glory in Thy praise.
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting. And let all the people say, "Amen." Praise the Lord!
