Thus says the Lord, "For three transgressions of Moab and for four I will not revoke its [punishment], Because he burned the bones of the king of Edom to lime.
"So I will send fire upon Moab, And it will consume the citadels of Kerioth; And Moab will die amid tumult, With war cries and the sound of a trumpet.
"I will also cut off the judge from her midst, And slay all her princes with him," says the Lord.
Thus says the Lord, "For three transgressions of Judah and for four I will not revoke its [punishment], Because they rejected the law of the Lord And have not kept His statutes; Their lies also have led them astray, Those after which their fathers walked.
"So I will send fire upon Judah, And it will consume the citadels of Jerusalem."
Thus says the Lord, "For three transgressions of Israel and for four I will not revoke its [punishment], Because they sell the righteous for money And the needy for a pair of sandals.
"These who pant after the [very] dust of the earth on the head of the helpless Also turn aside the way of the humble; And a man and his father resort to the same girl In order to profane My holy name.
"And on garments taken as pledges they stretch out beside every altar, And in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
"Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, Though his height [was] like the height of cedars And he [was] strong as the oaks; I even destroyed his fruit above and his root below.
"And it was I who brought you up from the land of Egypt, And I led you in the wilderness forty years That you might take possession of the land of the Amorite.
"Then I raised up some of your sons to be prophets And some of your young men to be Nazirites. Is this not so, O sons of Israel?" declares the Lord.
"But you made the Nazirites drink wine, And you commanded the prophets saying, 'You shall not prophesy!'
"Behold, I am weighted down beneath you As a wagon is weighted down when filled with sheaves.
"Flight will perish from the swift, And the stalwart will not strengthen his power, Nor the mighty man save his life.
"He who grasps the bow will not stand [his ground], The swift of foot will not escape, Nor will he who rides the horse save his life.
"Even the bravest among the warriors will flee naked in that day," declares the Lord.
