Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
But because of immoralities, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
Let the husband fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband.
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband [does]; and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife [does.]
Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and come together again lest Satan tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
But this I say by way of concession, not of command.
Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner, and another in that.
But I say to the unmarried and to widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I.
But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn.
But to the married I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband
(but if she does leave, let her remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband), and that the husband should not send his wife away.
But to the rest I say, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, let him not send her away.
And a woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to live with her, let her not send her husband away.
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband; for otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy.
Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave; the brother or the sister is not under bondage in such [cases,] but God has called us to peace.
For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?
Only, as the Lord has assigned to each one, as God has called each, in this manner let him walk. And thus I direct in all the churches.
Was any man called [already] circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but [what matters is] the keeping of the commandments of God.
Let each man remain in that condition in which he was called.
Were you called while a slave? Do not worry about it; but if you are able also to become free, rather do that.
For he who was called in the Lord while a slave, is the Lord's freedman; likewise he who was called while free, is Christ's slave.
You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men.
Brethren, let each man remain with God in that [condition] in which he was called.
Now concerning virgins I have no command of the Lord, but I give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy.
I think then that this is good in view of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is.
Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
But if you should marry, you have not sinned; and if a virgin should marry, she has not sinned. Yet such will have trouble in this life, and I am trying to spare you.
But this I say, brethren, the time has been shortened, so that from now on those who have wives should be as though they had none;
and those who weep, as though they did not weep; and those who rejoice, as though they did not rejoice; and those who buy, as though they did not possess;
and those who use the world, as though they did not make full use of it; for the form of this world is passing away.
But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord;
but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
and [his interests] are divided. And the woman who is unmarried, and the virgin, is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit; but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
And this I say for your own benefit; not to put a restraint upon you, but to promote what is seemly, and [to secure] undistracted devotion to the Lord.
But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin [daughter,] if she should be of full age, and if it must be so, let him do what he wishes, he does not sin; let her marry.
But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, but has authority over his own will, and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his own virgin [daughter,] he will do well.
So then both he who gives his own virgin [daughter] in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better.
A wife is bound as long as her husband lives; but if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.
But in my opinion she is happier if she remains as she is; and I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
