Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, so do you also.
On the first day of every week let each one of you put aside and save, as he may prosper, that no collections be made when I come.
And when I arrive, whomever you may approve, I shall send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
and if it is fitting for me to go also, they will go with me.
But I shall come to you after I go through Macedonia, for I am going through Macedonia;
and perhaps I shall stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me on my way wherever I may go.
For I do not wish to see you now [just] in passing; for I hope to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
But I shall remain in Ephesus until Pentecost;
for a wide door for effective [service] has opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without cause to be afraid; for he is doing the Lord's work, as I also am.
Let no one therefore despise him. But send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brethren.
But concerning Apollos our brother, I encouraged him greatly to come to you with the brethren; and it was not at all [his] desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.
Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
Let all that you do be done in love.
Now I urge you, brethren (you know the household of Stephanas, that they were the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves for ministry to the saints),
that you also be in subjection to such men and to everyone who helps in the work and labors.
And I rejoice over the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; because they have supplied what was lacking on your part.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge such men.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
All the brethren greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
The greeting is in my own hand-- Paul.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed. Maranatha.
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
