Pursue love, yet desire earnestly spiritual [gifts,] but especially that you may prophesy.
For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God; for no one understands, but in [his] spirit he speaks mysteries.
But one who prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation.
One who speaks in a tongue edifies himself; but one who prophesies edifies the church.
Now I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but [even] more that you would prophesy; and greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edifying.
But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I speak to you either by way of revelation or of knowledge or of prophecy or of teaching?
Yet [even] lifeless things, either flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction in the tones, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the harp?
For if the bugle produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
So also you, unless you utter by the tongue speech that is clear, how will it be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into the air.
There are, perhaps, a great many kinds of languages in the world, and no [kind] is without meaning.
If then I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be to the one who speaks a barbarian, and the one who speaks will be a barbarian to me.
So also you, since you are zealous of spiritual [gifts,] seek to abound for the edification of the church.
Therefore let one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
What is [the outcome] then? I shall pray with the spirit and I shall pray with the mind also; I shall sing with the spirit and I shall sing with the mind also.
Otherwise if you bless in the spirit [only,] how will the one who fills the place of the ungifted say the "Amen" at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?
For you are giving thanks well enough, but the other man is not edified.
I thank God, I speak in tongues more than you all;
however, in the church I desire to speak five words with my mind, that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue.
Brethren, do not be children in your thinking; yet in evil be babes, but in your thinking be mature.
In the Law it is written, "By men of strange tongues and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, and even so they will not listen to Me," says the Lord.
So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to unbelievers; but prophecy [is for a sign], not to unbelievers, but to those who believe.
If therefore the whole church should assemble together and all speak in tongues, and ungifted men or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are mad?
But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an ungifted man enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all;
the secrets of his heart are disclosed; and so he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that God is certainly among you.
What is [the outcome] then, brethren? When you assemble, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
If anyone speaks in a tongue, [it should be] by two or at the most three, and [each] in turn, and let one interpret;
but if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in the church; and let him speak to himself and to God.
And let two or three prophets speak, and let the others pass judgment.
But if a revelation is made to another who is seated, let the first keep silent.
For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted;
and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets;
for God is not [a God] of confusion but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints.
Let the women keep silent in the churches; for they are not permitted to speak, but let them subject themselves, just as the Law also says.
And if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home; for it is improper for a woman to speak in church.
Was it from you that the word of God [first] went forth? Or has it come to you only?
If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment.
But if anyone does not recognize [this], he is not recognized.
Therefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in tongues.
But let all things be done properly and in an orderly manner.
